GOOD
EVENING AND WELCOME TO THE
APRIL 19TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO
REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
WHICH IS AVAILABLE ONLINE.
MR. LEONARD, WILL YOU PLEASE UP
ALL THE RULE
?
I KNOW EXACTLY WHAT YOU.
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER BRANDELL HERE.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE.
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER LEET HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK HERE.
COMMISSIONER WHICH HERE FULL
HOUSE KRAATZ NEXT UP IS
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER MOVE
THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER LISA AND BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION.
PLEASE RAISE A HAND OR SAY YES
,ALL OF THE HANDS.
ITEM NUMBER FOUR ARE THE
MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETING.
WE HAVE THE MINUTES FROM THE
APRIL 5TH.
TWENTY TWENTY TWO MEETING.
&gt;&gt; CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
MOVE THOSE APPROVED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH ANY
DISCUSSION OR CORRECTIONS ALL
IN FAVOR PLEASE RAISE A HAND
THAT IS ALL OF THE HANDS.
NEXT UP ARE THE REPORTS FROM
CITY ADMINISTRATION CITY
COUNCIL PLANNING MANAGER
PLANNING COMMISSION OFFICERS
AND COMMITTEES COMMISSIONER, DO
YOU HAVE ANY REPORT FOR US?
&gt;&gt; YES.
YES.
&gt;&gt; LAST NIGHT COUNCIL APPROVED
THE ANNEXATION OF THE WILSON
BERRY PROPERTY ARE NOT
ANNEXATION EXCUSE ME THE THE
REZONING OF THE WILSON BARRY
PROPERTY WHICH WAS ANNEXED
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING PUZZLED.
&gt;&gt; JANET SEES ONE SIX ONE FOUR
RIVERVIEW DRIVE AND I REALLY
DON&apos;T THINK THAT THERE WAS
ANYTHING ELSE.
WE WE TALKED ABOUT THE BUDGET
BUT I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S
OF INTEREST IN IN ANY SPECIFIC
WAY.
&gt;&gt; OH, THERE&apos;S SEVEN HUNDRED
DOLLARS SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS SEVEN HUNDRED DOLLARS
FOR THE MASTER PLAN.
YES.
SO THERE&apos;S SEVEN HUNDRED
THOUSAND FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN IN THE BUDGET.
MR. LEONARD, ANYTHING TO ADD?
I DO HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS I
HAVE THE PLEASURE OF JOINING
DR. DALTS AND EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR JENNIFER HALL AT THE
LAST SESSION OF THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD.
&gt;&gt; SYRETT WEBINAR SERIES ON
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IF YOU NOW
THAT I&apos;VE ALREADY GIVEN MY
PRESENTATION MY NERVES ARE
QUASHED.
SO IF YOU DIDN&apos;T GET A CHANCE
TO SEE THAT IT IS AVAILABLE ON
OUR WEBSITE IT IS ABOUT THE
INTERSECTION OF ZONING AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
SUSTAINABILITY.
I ALSO WANT TO REVISIT AN ISSUE
THAT&apos;S BEEN COMING UP WITH ALL
OF YOUR MEETINGS LATELY THE THE
PARKING AMENDMENTS I PRESENTED
AT THE WORKING SESSION THAT I
THINK THAT NOT I THINK I
CREATED SOME CONFUSION AND
DURING THE DISCUSSION WHERE THE
PARKING AMENDMENTS WERE ADOPTED
ADDITIONALLY A SMALLER PIECE
OF THAT IS I MENTIONED THAT
THERE MIGHT BE SOME OTHER UDC
REFERENCES THAT ALSO NEED TO BE
ADJUSTED AS PART OF THAT UPON
ANALYSIS THOSE ARE MORE
EXTENSIVE THAN I ORIGINALLY
THOUGHT.
SO I WILL BE REPRESENTING THE
PARKING AMENDMENTS TO THIS
BOARD ON MAY 17TH WITH ALL
OF THOSE ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS
IF ANY OTHER QUESTIONS ARISE
ABOUT THE INTERPLAY BETWEEN OUR
FORM BASED STANDARDS AND THE
MAXIMUM, I&apos;M HAPPY TO ADDRESS
THAT PROVIDE ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION.
BUT THE OTHER SECTIONS THAT
RELY UPON THE PARKING SECTION
AS I SAID WERE A LITTLE BIT I
DON&apos;T THINK THEY&apos;RE SIGNIFICANT
BUT THEY&apos;RE MORE EXTENSIVE THAN
I ORIGINALLY THOUGHT AND THUS
CERTAINLY WORTHWHILE FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO REVIEW
BEFORE THEY PROCEED.
SO THAT&apos;LL BE MAY 17TH AND
THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ARE THERE ANY COMMISSIONER
OFFICERS COMMITTEE LIAISONS
THAT HAVE ANYTHING TO REPORT
ALL RIGHT THEN WE CAN MOVE ON
TO ITEM SIX.
THIS IS THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
PERSONS MAY SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT&apos;S NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
SO WE&apos;LL HAVE DEDICATED PUBLIC
HEARINGS ON 212 MILLER.
TWENTY SIX HUNDRED PONTIAC
TRAIL AND THOSE ARE THE ONLY
ONES WE&apos;LL WE&apos;LL HAVE PUBLIC
HEARINGS TONIGHT THAT SOUND
RIGHT.
OK FOR ANY OTHER ISSUE THOUGH,
PLEASE IF YOU&apos;RE JOINING US
VIRTUALLY YOU CAN USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE ON ZOOM.
YOU CAN PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU
ARE LISTENING IN BY PHONE OR
YOU CAN CALL IN NOW AT EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR
TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
MR. LEARNER WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
AGAIN PRESSING STAR NINE OR THE
RAISED HAND BUTTON PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY BEFORE TURNING
IT OVER TO THOSE WHO HAVE
JOINED US REMOTELY.
IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE IN THE
CHAMBERS HERE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO PROVIDE PUBLIC COMMENT NOW
YOU CAN GO AHEAD AND APPROACH
THE PODIUM.
MR. LEONARD, ARE THERE ANY ON
LINE THERE OR NOT?
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT THEN WE WILL MOVE
ON TO ITEM SEVEN WHICH IS THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS THAT ARE
SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING.
WE HAVE ONE NEW PUBLIC HEARING
SCHEDULED FOR THE MAY 4TH
MEETING.
THIS IS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVIEW THE INNER CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AND PLANNING
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES UNIT
REVIEW THE CITY&apos;S COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN ON A REGULAR BASIS.
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CONSISTS
OF SEVERAL PLANS OR ELEMENTS
THAT WORK TOGETHER TO DESCRIBE
A VISION FOR THE CITY&apos;S FUTURE
AND GUIDE DECISIONS ABOUT ITS
LAND USE TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE, ENVIRONMENT,
HOUSING AND PUBLIC FACILITIES.
THE ADAPTED PLAN ELEMENTS CAN
BE FOUND ON THE CITY&apos;S WEBSITE
AT EIGHT TO GOVERN BERGKAMP
PLAN.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S PLAN ONWARD AND AS
PART OF AN ANNUAL REVIEW, THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS SEEKING
COMMENTS ABOUT THE CITY&apos;S
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN INCLUDING
ELEMENTS THAT SHOULD BE STUDIED
FOR POSSIBLE CHANGE OR NEW
ELEMENTS THAT SHOULD BE ADDED
TO THE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, VERY GOOD.
NEXT WE&apos;LL MOVE ON TO THE
REGULAR BUSINESS FOR TONIGHT&apos;S
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE ON A AND FIRST UP
IS 212 MILLER AVENUE.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL START WITH A PROJECT
PRESENTATION AND THEN THE STAFF
REPORT BEFORE OPENING UP THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
&gt;&gt; JUST GIVE ME A MOMENT TO GET
FOLKS PROMOTED HERE
IF ANYBODY
ELSE FROM YOUR PROJECT TEAM
THAT YOU&apos;RE EXPECTING TO SEE ON
ZOOM ZOOM I THINK YOU HAVE
EVERYONE WHEN THAT WAS JOINING
ASSUMING CARL CAN YOU HAND ME
IT YOURSELF IF YOU&apos;RE MUTED IT
DOESN&apos;T LOOK LIKE SHE&apos;S MUTED
AND I CAN VERY VAGUELY HEAR HER
SO GIVE ME A MINUTE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL SEE IF WE GET THE
VOLUME TURNED UP THERE.
&gt;&gt; WE MIGHT HAVE TO DO AN AUDIO
CHECK WITH YOU IN JUST A
MINUTE.
WHAT&apos;S MR. LEINERT MOVES
TOWARDS THE CONTROLS
?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
HELP HAS ARRIVED
.
DO WE THINK IT&apos;S JUST FROM
THOSE VIDEOS?
&gt;&gt; SCREAMS HEY JEFF, CAN YOU
SEE A LITTLE SOMETHING FOR US?
&gt;&gt; BRETT NO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW WE HEAR YOU
LIKE AT THE END OF A VERY LONG,
LONG TUNNEL.
&gt;&gt; OK, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
&gt;&gt; OH YEAH.
WE&apos;LL WORK ON IT
.
UH,
THIS IS WHEN WE NEED
COMMISSIONER LEIGHS P.A. EITHER
THE JEOPARDY THEME
.
&gt;&gt; MR. KHAN, CAN YOU TRY
TALKING AGAIN?
YEAH.
ARE YOU ABLE TO HEAR?
&gt;&gt; NO.
I MEAN IT&apos;S ENOUGH LIKE BETWEEN
RIPPLY LIKE LIP READING AND
HEARING IT DOWN
THE HALL WE CAN
HEAR YOU BUT WE&apos;RE WORKING ON
IT BY OK.
&gt;&gt; SEATON AND MR. LEONARD RIGHT
.
&gt;&gt; CATHOLIC COMMUNITY CENTER,
HELLO.
&gt;&gt; OK, WELL THAT&apos;S A OF A
COURTESY FOR I WASN&apos;T OK SO IT
MUST BE SOME THE COUNCIL
CHAMBERS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH
I WISH I COULD
MEET MY FACE BUT THAT SAID NO I
HAVE I HAVE TO SHOW MY FACE WE
ARE YEAH
THEY CAN HEAR EACH
OTHER SO I THINK IT&apos;S JUST US
.
&gt;&gt; SURE THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU JUST HEARD
THAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO TAKE A TEN
MINUTE ISH BREAK TO TRY TO
FIGURE THIS OUT AND THEN WE&apos;LL
BE BACK THE UM WHEN DO YOU
ANTICIPATE
WE WOULD LOSE
?
THERE WE GO.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE ARE BACK TO ITEM EIGHT A
WE NEVER REALLY STARTED SO
WE&apos;LL START WITH A PETITION
PETITIONER PRESENTATION AND
THEN THE STAFF REPORT IN A
PUBLIC HEARING.
&gt;&gt; SO WHERE WE LOST YOU MYSKINA
WE WERE SAYING IS THERE ANYONE
ELSE THAT SHOULD BE, UM, ZOM
AND EVERYONE IS IN THE CHAMBERS
WITH YOU IN PERSON THAT&apos;S ALL
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO I CAN&apos;T AND CAN&apos;T MAKE AN
ENGINEERING AT THE SITE.
&gt;&gt; TOM, TALK ABOUT HIS VISION
FOR THE PROJECT AND EXPLAIN IT
TO YOU A LITTLE BIT, OK?
CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
&gt;&gt; WE CAN GO AHEAD.
OK, SO I BELIEVE OUR ARCHITECT
IS ACTUALLY THERE.
CARL IS THAT THE CASE?
&gt;&gt; HE IS HE&apos;S WAVING HIS HAND
IN THE CORNER.
OK, SO MAYBE I&apos;LL LET HIM GO
FIRST AND ESSENTIALLY GIVE YOU
AN OVERVIEW OF THE PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW HE&apos;S GOT SOME UM
SAMPLE BOARD MATERIAL.
I WANT TO DESCRIBE WHAT WE&apos;RE
DOING THERE AND THEN IF THERE&apos;S
ANY QUESTIONS I&apos;M HAPPY TO TO
ANSWER THOSE OR FILL IN ANY ANY
BLANKS.
&gt;&gt; BUT PLEASE, KYLE, TAKE IT
AWAY.
ALL RIGHT.
HE&apos;S COMING UP TO THE PODIUM.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO BE BORN IN
THIS TOWN IN THE MIDDLE OF LAST
CENTURY 212 MILLER IS A LOT
SCALE PROJECT IS BUILT ON WHAT
WE BUILT UP TO TO THE SITE.
IT&apos;S A HOUSE IS
A COMPLETE IF
YOU LOOK AT IT I&apos;M ALWAYS
PUTTING IT HAS IT&apos;S SHORT HIGH
IT HAS ITS 20 FOOT COURTYARD
NOW THE SIDE HERE IS TWENTY
ROOM THE BUILDING OF THIS WEST
SIDE IS CURVED AND FACES OVER A
PARKING LOT RIGHT NOW.
MR. HEATER.
YES YOU SPEAK AS CLOSE AS YOU
CAN TO THAT MICROPHONE AT THE
PODIUM SO FOLKS WATCHING ON
ROOM CAN HEAR YOU AS AUTHOR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WE&apos;VE TRIED TO DEVELOP THE
FRONT OF THE BUILDING ONE MORE
GREEN SPACE I NOTICE THAT WE
HAVE A GREEN FENCE THAT GOES
ACROSS THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING HERE.
THERE&apos;S A LANDSCAPING AREA
BETWEEN THE BUILDING AND THE
SIDEWALK.
WE HAVE TREES DOWN THROUGH THE
COURTYARD AREA.
WE DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT ELSE IT&apos;S A
SEVEN OR EIGHT UNIT BUILDING
DEPENDING ON THE FINAL
CONFIGURATION THE PARKING IS
DOWN BELOW YOU GO DOWN UNDER
AND EACH GARAGE IS IS TWO CARS
DEEP.
EACH GARAGE WILL HAVE ITS OWN
EVERY OUTLET FOR AT LEAST ONE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE AND THE
TENANTS DRIVE INTO THE GARAGE
AND THEY ACCESS THEIR UNITS
FROM AN ELEVATOR THAT GOES FROM
THE GARAGE LEVEL UP TO THE
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS
AND ALSO BY GOING IN THE UNIT
ENTRIES ON THE EAST SIDE YOU
CAN ALSO COME IN A FRONT DOOR
AND ACCESS THE SAME ELEVATOR
THAT WILL TAKE YOU UP UP TO
YOUR UNIT AND THERE&apos;S ALSO A
STAIRWAY THAT GOES UP TO I
CAN&apos;T IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A
STANDARD PLANET OUT IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR BEING SIXTY SIX
FEET WIDE AND A HUNDRED AND
THIRTY TWO THE THE PROJECT IS
DOING A STREET IMPROVEMENT OR
THEY&apos;RE IMPROVING THE WATER
MAIN DOWN THE FRONT OF THE
STREET.
I STILL BELIEVE THAT&apos;S TRUE.
CORRECT TOM?
YES THAT&apos;S TRUE.
YEAH OK.
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M HERE TO ANSWER ANY OF THE
QUESTIONS.
THE BUILDING IS GOING TO BE
LIGHTER IN TONE MAJOR SURFACE
WATER TEMPERATURE OH PANELS
DEGREE OUTSIDE THE GARAGE.
THE GRAPHITE POWDER AND AWAY
FROM THE MICROPHONE IS WHITE ON
THE SIDE GREATER COLORED METAL
IS THE THE BASE AND THE UPPER
MEZZANINE AREA AND THE WINDOWS
THE DOORS AND THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
BE YOUR TYPICAL BLACK QUESTIONS
OUT HERE.
THANK YOU.
ANYTHING ELSE FROM THE
PETITIONER?
I DIDN&apos;T THERE&apos;S SOME TIME YET
LEFT.
&gt;&gt; YEP.
NOT THIS TIME BUT IF I&apos;M NOT
SURE IF YOU WANT TO SHARE MY
SCREEN I HAVE ELEVATION&apos;S THE
COLOR OF RENDERINGS THAT KARL
HAD PREPARED.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO SEE THOSE
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN YOU SEE THAT WE CAN SO THIS
IS THE S ELEVATION.
IT SHOULD BE THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING BASTING MILLER YOU CAN
SEE THE GREEN THAT KARL WAS
TALKING ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE THREE OR NINE
BUILDING.
THIS IS THE EAST ELEVATION&apos;S.
SO THIS WOULD BE WHAT THE
ELEVATION FACING THE THREE OR
NINE BUILDING WOULD LOOK LIKE
THE COURTYARD AND THE ENTRANCES
THE UNITS SKIPPED ONE.
THIS IS THE NORTH ELEVATION.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE
AND THEN THE WEST ELEVATION
OF THE BUILDING I THINK WITH
THAT WE&apos;LL TURN IT OVER TO JEFF
FOR THIS THE STAFF REPORT
THAT&apos;S VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
THIS PROJECT DID GO TO THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD WHICH
PROVIDED SOME SOME COMMENTS.
THE PROJECT EFFECT IS
CONSISTENT THE SCALE AND
CHARACTER OF OTHER PROJECTS IN
THE D TO WE ALSO FEEL THAT THE
PROJECT IS CONSISTENT WITH CITY
GOALS FOR INCREASING DENSITY
DOWNTOWN.
THIS IS A TIGHT LITTLE SITE
WITH AN EXISTING HOME FROM THE
LATTER PART OF THE NINETEENTH
CENTURY THERE AND AND THEY WERE
ABLE TO GET EIGHT DWELLING
UNITS SO STAFF DID DID SUPPORT
THE PROPOSED SITE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO READ THAT
RECOMMENDATION.
STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
OF THE SITE PLAN BECAUSE IT
COMPLIES WITH ALL APPLICABLE
LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL
ORDINANCES STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS AND WILL NOT CAUSE
A PUBLIC OR PRIVATE NUISANCE
.
ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD THEN I THINK WE ARE
READY TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED THE 212 MILLER AVENUE
SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL WILL FIRST
CALL ON INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
PRESENT HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
IF YOU&apos;VE JOINED US REMOTELY
PRESS THE RAISED HAND BUTTON ON
YOUR ZOOM SCREEN IF YOU ARE
HAVE ALREADY DIALED IN YOU CAN
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND AND IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
DIAL IN NOW THE NUMBER IS EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN.
OUR MEETING ID IS NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOR
TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
MR. LUNNER WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT RAISED THEIR HAND CALLING
ON YOU BY THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR TELEPHONE NUMBER OR
YOUR ZOOME NAME WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND SOUND SO
THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AND FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD IS THERE ANYONE HERE IN
COUNCIL CHAMBERS WHO&apos;D LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
GO AHEAD MR. GARBER.
APPARENTLY I NEED NO
INTRODUCTION.
KEN GARBER TWENTY EIGHT HAVE
YOUR HOME COURT.
NICE TO SEE EVERYONE.
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL IT&apos;S
GOOD USE FOR THIS SITE.
IT&apos;S TOO BAD A FUNCTIONAL
BUILDING HAS TO BE DEMOLISHED
BUT OVERALL A POSITIVE ADDITION
.
MY COMMENT AS USUAL ARE ABOUT
BUILDING HVAC AND GREENHOUSE
GAS EMISSIONS.
THIS IS A SMALL BUILDING BUT
EVERYTHING MATTERS.
THE EIGHT TO ZERO CLIMATE
ACTION PLAN STRATEGY TO ACTION
ONE ASSUMES NO NATURAL GAS AND
NEW CONSTRUCTION AT ALL IN OUR
CLIMATE EMERGENCY.
THE FORCED AIR GAS FURNACE IS A
TECHNOLOGY THAT NO LONGER HAS
ANY ROLE IN NEW RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS.
THE BEST ALTERNATIVE IS SOME
VERSION OF HEAT PUMP AIR OR
GROUND SOURCE.
LET&apos;S REVIEW THE BASICS.
HEAT CAN BE EXTRACTED FROM A
COLD OUTDOOR AIR BASED ON THE
SECOND FLOOR THERMAL DYNAMICS
WHICH STATES THAT AMONG OTHER
THINGS ANY TEMPERATURE
DIFFERENCE CAN BE MADE TO DO
WORK HEAT PUMPS USE ELECTRICITY
TO POWER A COMPRESSOR AND AN
EXPANSION VALVE.
COMPRESSING A GAS RAISES ITS
TEMPERATURE WARMING COLD
BUILDING SPACE THE COST
OF INSTALLING A HEAT PUMPING
NEW CONSTRUCTION IS ABOUT THE
SAME AS FOR A TRADITIONAL
BOILER OR FURNACE DUCTED SYSTEM
POSSIBLY CHEAPER BECAUSE OF THE
DUAL HEATING COOLING ROLE AND
THE LACK OF DUCTWORK.
NEW REFRIGERANTS MAKE HEAT
PUMPS PRACTICAL IN COLD
CLIMATES LIKE OURS, RESIDENT
UTILITY COSTS MAY BE HIGHER OR
LOWER DEPENDING ON THE RELATIVE
COST OF ELECTRICITY AND NATURAL
GAS AT ANY POINT IN TIME FOR AN
EIGHT UNIT BUILDING LIKE THIS
YOU CAN GO EITHER WITH A MINI
SPLIT WHERE SEPARATELY
CONTROLLED INDOOR UNITS CONNECT
TO A SINGLE OUTDOOR CONDENSER
FLASH EVAPORATOR OR WITH VRM
WHICH SENDS REFRIGERANT FROM
THE OUTDOOR UNIT THROUGH
INDIVIDUAL COMPRESSORS AND HEAT
RECOVERY BOX AND IS MORE
ADJUSTABLE AND EFFICIENT.
BUT THE MAIN THING IS TO ADD A
HEAT PUMP PRODUCES NO DIRECT
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AT ALL
WHILE BURNING NATURAL GAS IS
ALMOST AS DESTRUCTIVE TO OUR
CLIMATE AS COAL .
WHEN YOU TAKE UPSTREAM METHANE
METHANE EMISSIONS INTO ACCOUNT
,THIS BUILDING WILL PRODUCE
ROUGHLY ONE HUNDRED AND FOUR
METRIC TON CO2 EQUIVALENT
EMISSIONS A YEAR FROM GAS
COMBUSTION.
OF COURSE IT MAY REDUCE
COMMUTER MILES LOWERING
GASOLINE EMISSIONS.
I&apos;VE DONE THOSE CALCULATIONS
TOO AND THE SAVINGS, WHILE
IMPORTANT ONLY OFFSET ABOUT ONE
SIXTH THE EMISSION COSTS
OF USING A GAS SYSTEM.
&gt;&gt; I THINK MANY PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY CARE ABOUT THIS.
A FULLY ELECTRIFIED BUILDING
COULD PROVIDE A MARKETING
ADVANTAGE IN ANN ARBOR BUT THAT
IS INCIDENTAL.
IT&apos;S JUST THE RIGHT THING TO
DO.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
ARE THERE ANY FOLKS WHO&apos;VE
INDICATED THAT THEY&apos;RE
INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY?
&gt;&gt; NO TERMINALS.
ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
I&apos;LL CLOSE A PUBLIC HEARING
THEN AND READ THE MOTION AND I
NEED TO GO BACK TO THAT.
&gt;&gt; THE MOTION READS THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY APPROVES THE 212 MILLER
SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION AS IT COMPLIES WITH
ALL APPLICABLE LOCAL, STATE AND
FEDERAL ORDINANCES STANDARDS
AND REGULATIONS AND IT WILL NOT
CAUSE A PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
NUISANCE MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
OF SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHITECHURCH ANYONE WANT TO
START UP KICK OFF THE QUESTIONS
OR DISCUSSION
?
NO ONE WANTS TO KICK US OFF ANY
QUESTIONS AT ALL.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER SAUVé
,I HAVE MAYBE ONE CLARIFYING
QUESTION ABOUT THE ARCHITECTURE
AND THE ELEVATORS AND
ACCESSIBILITY.
I SEE STAIRS GOING UP TO THE
FRONT ENTRY TOWNHOMES TO THEN
ACCESS ELEVATORS AND CURRENTLY
NO DOORS TO ACCESS THE
ELEVATORS.
SO IS THERE A ZERO STAIR
THRESHOLD TO ACCESS AN ELEVATOR
UP TO THE UNITS?
THE UNITS ARE ACCESSIBLE FROM
THE ELEVATORS SO THE RESIDENTS
KNOWING IF SOMEONE IS COMING TO
VISIT THEM WILL ALLOW THAT
PERSON ACCESS TO THEIR ELEVATOR
AT THE GARAGE ENTRY POINT AND
THEN THEY CAN GO UP AND OUT
INTO THE UNIT.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE CLEARANCE FOR THAT
WITH A DOUBLE STACK CARS I
DON&apos;T SEE SIGNIFICANT CLEARANCE
FOR I&apos;LL HAVE TO THEY&apos;LL HAVE
TO PREPARE FOR SOMEONE COMING
TO VISIT.
ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN SO RELOCATE THEIR CAR
TO THE TO THE DIAGONALLY
ADJACENT PARKING GARAGE AND SO
IS A ROOM FOR IN ADA UNIT THAT
SOMEBODY COULD UNLOAD FROM
THEIR CAR IN THEIR GARAGE AND
ACCESS THEIR ELEVATOR.
I GUESS MY MAIN CONCERN IS IN
ALL OF THESE WE&apos;RE MAKING
CONCESSIONS FOR SOMEONE WITH NO
MOBILITY ISSUES TO UTILIZE THIS
TO GET OUT OF THEIR CAR AND
ACCESS THE ELEVATOR OR AN
EXCHANGE OF MOVING CAR TO
ACCESS THE ELEVATOR AND STAIRS
SO RESIDENTS CAN PARK IN THEIR
GARAGE AND USE THEIR ELEVATOR.
THEY&apos;RE ALL TYPE B TYPE UNITS
AND IF A GUEST IS COMING THEN I
CAN MAKE PREPARATION FOR THAT
GUEST BY MOVING OUR VEHICLE
OVER TO AN ASHLEY PARKING
STRUCTURE AND THEN THEIR GUESTS
CAN COME AND ACCESS THEIR
ELEVATOR.
&gt;&gt; BUT I GUESS IF IF A RESIDENT
IS WHEELCHAIR BOUND, HOW DO
THEY ACCESS THEIR ELEVATOR IF
THEY THEY TOOK A STROLL AROUND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEIR CARS
ARE IN THEIR GARAGE AND THEY
CAN&apos;T GO THROUGH THE STAIRS TO
THE FRONT DOOR TO ACCESS THE
ELEVATOR?
&gt;&gt; WELL, THAT WOULD BE THAT&apos;S
AN INTERESTING SCENARIO.
&gt;&gt; I I DON&apos;T HAVE AN ANSWER.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT WOULD BE MY MAIN
CONCERN AND SIGNIFICANTLY IT&apos;S
ABOUT YOU KNOW, THE STACKING
AND THE ACCESS TO THOSE
ELEVATORS WITHOUT STAIRS
THERE&apos;S NO ACCESS DIRECT
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE WITHOUT MOVING
VEHICLES TO HAVE THAT
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
WHICH INCREASES
CARBON EMISSIONS AND REQUIRES
FULL OPERATION OF GARAGE DOORS
INSTEAD OF HAVING A PERSON DOOR
TO BE ABLE TO MOVE THROUGH INTO
THE GARAGE AREA TO
ACCESS THE
ELEVATOR.
SO IF I TRIED TO DRAW A LINE
OF A WHEELCHAIR BOUND PERSON
LIVING IN THIS UNIT, I DON&apos;T
SEE A WAY WITHOUT CONTINUOUSLY
MOVING CARS AROUND INCREASING
CARBON EMISSIONS TO ACCESS
THEIR OWN UNIT WHICH IS SO I
GUESS MY CONCERN THEN TOO IS
HOW IS THIS BUILDING
REQUIREMENTS ABOUT ACCESSIBLE
UNITS IF NO UNITS HERE ARE
ACCESSIBLE, THE UNITS ARE AND
THERE&apos;S SOME QUESTION AT THE
MOMENT IF THEY NEED TO BE TYPE
B OR NOT AND THOSE ARE ALL
ISSUES THAT WE&apos;RE WORKING
THROUGH.
&gt;&gt; OK, MY BIGGEST CONCERN LIKE
I GUESS ALSO LOOKING AT THE
PLANS AND IN TERMS ACCESS
POINTS LIKE WE&apos;RE REALLY ASKING
ANYBODY WITH MOBILITY
RESTRICTIONS TO USE THE
DRIVEWAY TO ACCESS BECAUSE THEY
HAVE TO MEET WHOEVER THEY&apos;RE
VISITING AT THE GARAGE DOOR.
THEY HAVE TO NEGOTIATE WITH
VEHICLES TO ACCESS THE ELEVATOR
AND SO WE&apos;RE PUTTING VULNERABLE
PEOPLE WITHIN VEHICULAR TRAFFIC
PATTERNS TO BE ABLE TO ACCESS
UNITS AND VISIT UNITS, OTHER
PROJECTS IN TOWN THAT HAVE VERY
SIMILAR SITUATION THIS IN THIS
BUILDING SORT OF MODEL FOR THEM
.
SO I LIKE I SAID, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT NEEDS TO BE
LOOKED AT IN ORDER FOR ME TO
RESPOND.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS THOMAS SIMMONS.
I&apos;M THE DEVELOPER SO WE&apos;RE
CURRENTLY USING THIS BUILDING
AS ALL TYPE OF UNITS WHICH IS
THE BUILDING CODE REQUIRED TO
DO THAT SO EVERYTHING IS
ACCESSIBLE, READY.
&gt;&gt; YOUR CODE ALSO REQUIRES A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF PARKING WE
HAVE THAT MET WITH ONE PARKING
SPACE PER GARAGE THERE DOUBLE
DEPTH PANEL SO SOMEONE
CREATED THIS IS A USER CHOICE.
THEY COULD PARK TWO CARS THERE.
THEY COULD PARK ONE CAR THERE,
THEY COULD PARK BIKES.
THEY HAVE STORAGE.
THE WHOLE GOAL HERE IS TO GIVE
PEOPLE A LARGE PRIVATE SPACE
STORAGE SPACE THAT THEY DON&apos;T
GET IN REGULAR STYLE
CONDOMINIUMS.
WE&apos;VE DONE PROJECTS LIKE THIS
AT FORD FOR NORTMAN ONE TWENTY
ONE KINGSLEE WHILST I KNOW THE
MARQUIS DEVELOPED THE SAME WAY
ON LIBERTY AND SO THIS ARGUMENT
THAT THERE&apos;S NO WAY TO GET A
WHEELCHAIR IN HERE I MEAN
THAT&apos;S REALLY UP TO THE OWNER
IF IF THEY&apos;RE IN A WHEELCHAIR
IT&apos;S UP TO THEIR GUESTS.
THERE&apos;S WAYS WE&apos;RE ENABLING
WITH TECHNOLOGY THAT THE OWNER
COULD BE OVERSEAS AND USING
THEIR CELL PHONE CAN OPEN OUR
GARAGE DOOR AND OPEN OUR
ELEVATOR DOOR AND GET UP INTO
THE UNIT.
SO THE IDEA THAT IT&apos;S
COMPLETELY LOCKED AND CARS HAVE
TO BE MOVED IS SIMPLY NOT TRUE
.
I DISAGREE AND I HAVE CONCERNS
ABOUT THE ONLY ACCESS TO A ZERO
THRESHOLD IS THROUGH A GARAGE
DOOR THAT WE DON&apos;T HAVE A
PERSON DOOR TO ACCESS AND WE&apos;RE
PUTTING PEOPLE IN VEHICLE
TRANSIT RISK IN OUR EVALUATION
OF THE SITE IS ABOUT SAFETY AND
WE&apos;RE REALLY ASKING FOR
VULNERABLE REAL MOVEMENT IN
VEHICULAR AREA.
SO THAT&apos;S MY MAIN CONCERN RIGHT
NOW WITH THE PROJECT AND WE
UNDERSTAND THAT IN TO DECIDE
THIS PROJECT TO ALL BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS FROM PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS?
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
GIVE BRANDELL YOUR MODEL
INDICATED THAT YOU SAID YOU
WERE PLANTING TREES IN A PATIO
ZONE BUT I&apos;M JUST NOT SEEING
THEM ON THE PLAN AND SO I&apos;M
WONDERING WHAT WHAT&apos;S THE STORY
WITH THAT?
&gt;&gt; THE TREES ARE GOING TO BE IN
PLANNERS AND THEY&apos;RE NOT PART
OF THIS OF THE REQUIRED
LANDSCAPING FOR THE SITE.
IN ADDITION TO THAT.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO YOU JUST YOU&apos;RE
TELLING US ABOUT THEM BUT
THEY&apos;RE NOT PART OF YOUR KIND
OF BASE SCOPE IN TERMS OF THE
SORT OF PART OF THE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL PROCESS THEY&apos;RE PART
OF ONE OF THE AMENITIES THAT&apos;S
GOING TO BE IN THE COURTYARD.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WE TYPICALLY USE THREE
BY THREE OR FOUR BY FOUR
PLANTERS TO PLANT TREES WHICH
AGAIN WE&apos;VE DONE THAT FOR ONE
FOR NORTH MAIN OR WE DESIGN A
SIMILAR BUILDING WITH TWO
BUILDINGS WITH A COURTYARD
BETWEEN THEM AND ALSO AT ONE
TWENTY ONE KINGSLEY WAS I MEAN
I REALLY GET WORKED OUT WHEN WE
DO THE STRUCTURAL DESIGN WE
HAVE TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT SOME
EXTREMELY HEAVY LOADS.
BUT AGAIN THANKFULLY THE WAY
THIS BUILDING&apos;S DESIGN WITH THE
INDIVIDUAL JUST BELOW AND
ESSENTIALLY A NUMBER
OF STRUCTURAL WALLS DOWN BELOW
AT 14 FEET ON CENTER WE&apos;RE ABLE
TO PLANT QUITE A FEW TREES ON
THERE WHICH WILL BE A VERY NICE
AMENITY.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN WE WE WERE ONE OF THE
MAIN GOALS WHEN WE FIRST
ACQUIRED THIS SITE WAS HOW IT&apos;S
GOING TO INTERACT THE BUILDING
THAT WE&apos;RE BUILDING RIGHT NEXT
DOOR.
RIGHT.
WE DIDN&apos;T WANT TO BUILD DOWN
WALL THE WALL AND SO BY
BUILDING A BIT OF A SMALLER
STRUCTURE WE DID A NUMBER
OF SUN AND SHADE STUDIES HERE
TO THE WEST AND ALSO LEAVING
THAT TWENTY YARD COURTYARD
BETWEEN WHICH IS VERY SLOWLY
GOING PAST WE THINK IT&apos;S GOING
TO BE A REALLY NICE FEATURE FOR
RESIDENTS OF BOTH BUILDINGS
WHEN WE GET THAT PLANT YOU PLAN
WILL BE IN THAT COURTYARD AND
THEN HAVE YOU ALL CONSIDERED
DOING ANY LIKE ANY KIND
OF ELECTRIFICATION FOR THE
BUILDING IN TERMS OF STOVES OR
OVENS OR GOING ALSO THINKING
ABOUT H BACK AND THINGS LIKE
THAT?
IS THERE SOMETHING YOU ALL
WOULD CONSIDER?
&gt;&gt; OH YEAH, YOU BET.
SO RIGHT NOW WHAT WE&apos;RE USING
IS HIGH EFFICIENCY CONDENSING
UNITS SO IT&apos;S SORT OF A HYBRID
SYSTEM WHERE IT&apos;S AIR TO AIR
HEAT EXCHANGER SO IT&apos;S ALL
ELECTRIC AND MOST OF THE
SHOULDER SEASONS AND IN THE
SUMMER IT RELIES ON A BACKUP
NATURAL GAS IN THE DEAD OF
WINTER.
SO THAT&apos;S ESSENTIALLY BACKUP
HEAT SOURCE VERSUS ALL ELECTRIC
WHERE YOU RELY ON ELECTRIC
RESISTANCE HEATING.
SO WE&apos;VE HAD VERY GOOD LUCK
WITH THESE INSTALL ON THEM ALL
THROUGHOUT THREE OH NINE NORTH
ACTUALLY NEXT DOOR WE&apos;LL ALSO
BE PREPPING FOR SOLAR.
WE&apos;LL BE BRINGING A BIG FAT
PIPE UP FROM OUR ELECTRIC METER
ROOM UP TO THE ROOF SO THAT
IT&apos;LL BE EASY IF THE RESIDENTS
THIS WILL BE WE&apos;RE PLANNING TO
BE IN A CONDO PROJECT.
WE&apos;LL SELL OUT THE EASY IF THE
RESIDENTS WANT TO VOTE AND PUT
ANY SOLAR UP THERE THE FUTURE
ALSO BECAUSE YOUR STANDARDS
RECENTLY CHANGED AND REQUIRED
LIKE A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF ELECTRIC CAR CHARGING IT
DOESN&apos;T REALLY WORK THAT KIND
OF BUILDING.
SO WE&apos;RE ESSENTIALLY IN OUR
MARKETING OFFERING ELECTRIC
ACTUAL ELECTRIC CAR CHARGERS
FOR EVERY SINGLE GARAGE.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;LL NOT ONLY PAY FOR
THEM BUT WHY WHEN PEOPLE
PURCHASE THE UNITS WILL ALSO
CLIMB A CHARGER.
PLEASE LET US KNOW WHAT TYPE
OF ELECTRICAL CHARGE THEY WANT,
WHETHER IT&apos;S A TUSSLER
SOMETHING.
&gt;&gt; SO WE THINK WE A PRETTY
PRETTY GOOD PLAN.
WOULD YOU CONSIDER DOING LIKE
INDUCTION STOVES OR THINGS LIKE
THAT?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL BE LOOKING AT
EVERYTHING AS WE GET FURTHER
INTO THE PROJECT.
SO WE HAVE LOOKED AT INDUCTION
SO WE&apos;VE LOOKED AT EVERYTHING
FROM WOLFE WHICH IS A HIGH END
BRAND THAT IS REALLY THE ONLY
HIGH END BRAND MAKING THAT TYPE
APPLIANCE RIGHT NOW ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO LIKE GE APPLIANCES THAT
REALLY THAT TECHNOLOGY IS
CATCHING UP WITH EVERYBODY
WHETHER IT BE APPLIANCE
MANUFACTURERS LIGHTING DONE A
GOOD JOB.
WE DO ALL OLED EVERYWHERE
HEATING AND COOLING IS IS JUST
PRETTY GOOD.
IT&apos;S A LITTLE DIFFICULT ALMOST
CLIMATE BUT WE THINK WE HAVE A
GOOD PLAN THERE AND AGAIN WE&apos;LL
PREP FOR SOLAR.
WELL, AND I&apos;M HEARTENED TO HEAR
THAT YOU&apos;RE CONSIDERING THAT I
KNOW THAT THESE ARE DECISIONS
THAT YOU MAY MAKE LATER IN THE
PROCESS AS YOU FIGURE THINGS
OUT.
BUT I&apos;M GLAD THAT YOU ALL ARE
CONSIDERING THAT AND WE WOULD
JUST ENCOURAGE YOU EVEN THOUGH
WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANY TEETH WITH
US, IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE CARE
A LOT ABOUT.
SO I&apos;M GLAD THAT YOU ALL ARE
THINKING ABOUT IT AND AND
CONSIDERING DOING AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE ACTUALLY I&apos;M INVOLVED
IN ANOTHER PROJECT DOWNTOWN
WHICH IS GOING TO BE A LEGAL
PROJECT.
SO WE&apos;VE HAD TO DO A LOT
OF PRELIMINARY WORK ON ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND WE FOUND THAT
OUR CURRENT BUILDING STANDARDS
ARE WINDOWS BUILDING DOWN BELOW
HPC SYSTEMS THAT WE&apos;RE USING
EVEN FOR THIS PROJECT WHICH WE
WON&apos;T BE GOING FOR A SPECIFIC
STANDARD MEET THAT GOAL SO WE
FEEL PRETTY GOOD ABOUT WHAT
WE&apos;RE ABLE TO OFFER OUR
CUSTOMERS THESE DAYS.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
I HAVE JUST A VERY SMALL
QUESTION SINCE YOU MENTIONED
LEED GOLD, WHICH I KNOW YOU&apos;RE
NOT GOING FOR IT THIS BUILDING
BUT AS MR. GARBER MENTIONED,
YOU ARE TEARING DOWN A
FUNCTIONAL BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; HAVE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT WHAT
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO DO WITH THAT
DEMOLITION DEBRIS AND HAVE YOU
THOUGHT ABOUT SALVAGING ANY
OF THE PARTS OF THAT BUILDING
THAT MIGHT BE SALVAGEABLE
ALWAYS WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE BEEN
BUILDING IN ANN ARBOR NOW FOR
THIRTY ONE YEARS.
I KNOW YOU HAVE A DEMOLITION
PROCESS THAT IS DIFFERENT THAN
MANY OTHER AREAS DEMOLITION
CHECKLIST WE CONTACT SALVAGE
COMPANIES.
WE HAVE PEOPLE COME THROUGH AND
SALVAGE WHATEVER WE CAN
REALISTICALLY OLD BUILDINGS
HAVE A LOT OF BAD MATERIALS IN
THEM TOO.
BUT WE&apos;LL CERTAINLY BE
CONTACTING OUR NORMAL VENDORS.
WE WORK WITH EVERYONE THE PART
I CAN&apos;T EVEN THINK THAT WE&apos;VE
WORKED WITH GROUPS OUT
OF DETROIT IN ANN ARBOR THE
SALVAGED AND RECYCLED MATERIALS
BUT THAT KIND OF IS CODIFIED
UNLESS THINGS HAVE CHANGED THAT
WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING THAT FOR EVERY
BUILDING THAT WE&apos;VE EVER HAD TO
TAKE DOWN THE CITY COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YOU&apos;RE WELCOME.
OTHER PARTIES ARE NOT
PETITIONERS, COMMISSIONERS HAVE
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS.
GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé
.
I&apos;LL ASK THE PETITIONER IF THEY
WOULD BE WILLING TO WORK WITH
STAFF TO CHANGE THE STAIR ENTRY
TO THE COURTYARD TO A RAMP
ENGINEERED INTO A RAMP TO
CREATE ACCESSIBLE PATHS TO THE
FRONT DOORS, THEN ACCESS THE
ELEVATORS THROUGH A SAFE PERSON
DOOR INSTEAD OF THE CAR DOOR AT
THE GARAGE.
&gt;&gt; SURE, I&apos;M NOT QUITE SURE
THAT WORKS.
I MEAN WE LOOKED AT THE RAMP
AND HAD A HARD, HARD TIME
MAKING A RAMP WORK UP TO THAT
COURTYARD LEVEL.
I KNOW I THINK ONE OF THE
BIGGEST ISSUES IS YOUR
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND
WOULDN&apos;T ALLOW US TO
ESSENTIALLY BRING A RAMP
LANDING OFF OF THE SIDEWALK
BECAUSE THE OF MILITARY THEY&apos;D
SAY THAT&apos;S A AND YOU CAN&apos;T EVEN
START WITH THAT.
SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE BIGGEST
ISSUES WHEN WE START TALKING TO
THEM ABOUT IT.
SO IT&apos;S REALLY HARD TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO EVEN GET A RAMP UP
TO THAT LEVEL.
I&apos;M CERTAINLY WILLING TO ENGAGE
WITH STAFF BOTH PLANNING AND
ENGINEERING.
I MEAN ONCE HOPEFULLY DONE AND
RECEIVE APPROVAL USUALLY YOU
START TO WORK WITH ENGINEERING,
PROVIDE REPAIRS, PLANS IS
CALLED MENTIONED.
WE DO HAVE TO BRING A NEW WATER
MAIN UP FROM FIRST DUTY TO
SERVICE THIS AND SO WHEN SHE&apos;S
WORKING ON ENGINEERING PLANS,
SURE WE HAVE NO PROBLEM LOOKING
AT A RAMP THERE WE DID ONCE BUT
WE JUST RAN THE PROBLEMS WITH
ENGINEERING STAFF.
&gt;&gt; COFFEE PLEASE JUMP IN HERE.
&gt;&gt; OBVIOUSLY THAT IS NOT
CORRECT BUT THAT&apos;S MY
RECOLLECTION OF THIS PROCESS.
NOW AS YOU KNOW, THERE&apos;S A
FAIRLY STEEP STREET AND THE
GRADE OF MILLER EXCEEDS WHAT&apos;S
ALLOWED BY ADA SO THERE BECOMES
A PROBLEM WHEN YOU START
MODIFYING SIDEWALK THAT YOU
CAN&apos;T MAKE THE SITUATION ANY
WORSE THAN WHAT IT ALREADY IS
AND TO INSTALL A RAMP YOU WOULD
HAVE TO PUT A LEVEL LANDING PAD
IN THAT SIDEWALK WHICH THEN
RESULTS IN ALL OF THE OTHER
SIDEWALK BEING AT A STEEPER
GRADE THAN IT&apos;S ALREADY.
SO WE DID LOOK EXTENSIVELY AT
PUTTING A RAMP IN HERE.
WE LOOKED AT DIFFERENT WAYS TO
PUT MORE THAN ONE RAMP.
WE JUST REALLY COULD NOT FIND A
WAY TO MAKE A RAMP WORK AND WE
THEN LOOKED AT PUTTING A RAMP,
YOU KNOW, THAT WENT DEEPER INTO
THE COURTYARD BUT THEN THAT
IMPACTS, YOU KNOW, THE GARAGES
AND WHAT SPACE IS AVAILABLE IN
THE GARAGE AND WE JUST IT JUST
WE COULDN&apos;T GET THE RAMP TO
WORK AND MAINTAIN, YOU KNOW,
THE ADA COMPLIANCE FOR THE
SIDEWALK ON THE STREET AS WELL
.
&gt;&gt; I THINK SOME LIKE OFF SITE
LANDING&apos;S IS A BIG LIKE IF YOU
CAN&apos;T MAINTAIN IT ON THE
SIDEWALK ONCE YOU GET ONTO YOUR
SITE YOU CAN START TO AVERAGE
SOME OF THOSE SLOPES AND THINGS
YOU CAN GIVE MORE SPACE TO GIVE
A PEDESTRIAN PATH AND DESIGNING
PERSON DOORS TO THE GARAGE
STORAGE AREAS.
BUT I CAN&apos;T SUPPORT IT IN ITS
CURRENT DESIGN CONFIGURATION.
THAT&apos;S JUST HIGH RISK OUR
TRAVEL ROUTES FOR VULNERABLE
PEOPLE ACCESSING THE SITE AND
SO I THERE NEED TO SEE WORKING
WITH STAFF TO BUILD ACCESS AT
THE LOWER STORAGE LEVEL WITH A
PERSON DOOR AND A DEDICATED
PATH DELINEATED SO THAT THE
VEHICLE PATH AND THE PERSON
PATH ARE SEPARATED AND
IDENTIFIED OR THAT ADDITIONAL
ENGINEERING HAPPENS THE
COURTYARD ON SITE INSTEAD OF ON
THE CITY PART OF A PARCEL TO
AVERAGE OUT AND CREATE A RAMP
AND MAYBE THAT SACRIFICING SOME
OF THE HUMANITY OF A COURTYARD
SPACE BUT IT&apos;S CREATING SAFER
SPACE FOR MORE ACCESSIBLE
POPULATIONS TO BE ABLE TO
ACCESS HOUSING.
AND I THINK IN THIS DEMOGRAPHIC
WE&apos;RE GOING TO SEE AGING
POPULATIONS THAT IT&apos;S REALLY
IMPORTANT THAT THEY HAVE SAFE
ACCESS.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER, WHICH
I&apos;D LIKE TO HEAR FROM STAFF
EITHER MR. KHAN OR MR. LEONARD
ON COMMISSIONER SURVEYS CONCERN
THAT SHE&apos;S RAISED AROUND THE
SAFETY BECAUSE THIS WOULD BE
UNDER OUR PURVIEW TO DENY THIS
PETITIONERS REQUEST BECAUSE IT
DOES POSE A RISK TO SAFETY.
BUT THE STAFF REPORT SAYS IT
DOES NOT.
AND SO BEFORE SORT OF MOVING
FORWARD, IF IF THERE COULD BE
SOME CLARITY
SOME GUIDANCE
BECAUSE IF WE COULD TABLE A
CONVERSATION OR DELAY IT TO
GIVE STAFF AND THE PETITIONER
AN OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE THESE
CHANGES SO WHATEVER I&apos;M LOOKING
AT THE SITE I&apos;M LISTENING TO
COMMISSIONER SAUVé I&apos;M
CONVINCED AND I&apos;D LIKE TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT THE BEST PATH
FORWARD IS.
&gt;&gt; WE WOULD BE HAPPY TO PUT
TOGETHER A MEETING WITH
ENGINEERING AND THE
PETITIONER&apos;S AGENTS TO RE
REVISIT THAT ISSUE.
I CAN&apos;T SPEAK TO THE
ENGINEERING STANDARDS THAT THAT
ENGINEERING WORKED WITH THE
PETITIONER ON BUT WE CAN
CERTAINLY FACILITATE THAT THAT
CONVERSATION.
LET&apos;S SEE PLANT MANAGER LEONARD
HAS ANY COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, AND TYPICALLY WE DON&apos;T
GET INTO I WOULD JUST ADD WE
DON&apos;T AS PART OF THE SITE PLAN
WE IT DOES REQUIRE COMPLIANCE
WITH ALL REGULATIONS NOT TO
CREATE ANY NUISANCES.
SO I THINK THE THE CONVERSATION
ON THOSE STANDARDS IS
APPROPRIATE AS IT RELATES TO
THE TYPE B UNITS IN THOSE
CONFIGURATION.
NEITHER MR. CONNOR I HAVE THE
EXPERTIZE TO TO SPEAK TO THE
ADEQUACY OF THAT OR NOT BUT
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING WE COULD
SOLICIT THAT FEEDBACK FROM OUR
BUILDING DEPARTMENT IF THAT
WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO THE
COMMISSION, HOW WOULD WE
APPROACH THIS AS OPPOSED TO
JUST A STRAIGHT VOTE HERE AT
THE TABLE IS THERE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO AMEND THE MOTION
TO INCLUDE THIS REVIEW SINCE
YOU ALL CAN&apos;T ANSWER THESE
QUESTIONS AT THE TABLE?
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M JUST TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW WE CAN GET TO A
DECISION BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
ABSENT THE INFORMATION THAT YOU
SAY THAT YOU CANNOT PROVIDE, I
FEEL ILL EQUIPPED TO VOTE IF
THERE IS A WAY FOR US TO
ACHIEVE THE CONCERNS THAT
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HAS
ARTICULATED AT THE SITE NOT AT
THE SIDEWALK LEVEL BECAUSE AS
SHE EXPLAINED SOME OF THE
CONCERNS I I WAS LIKE OH OK NOW
NOW I SEE WHAT YOU MEAN AND AND
THIS IS A PROBLEM AND THE
PETITIONER HAS SAID WELL IT&apos;S
REALLY SORT OF UP TO THE OWNER
TO TRY TO FIGURE THIS SOLUTION
OUT AND WE&apos;VE CREATED THIS
SPACE FOR THEM.
BUT DOES NOT GET NEGLECT
NEGLECT THE THE THE NOTION THAT
SOMEONE COMING INTO THE SPACE
IS NOW HARMED WHICH WHEN WE
WERE LOOKING AT THE DRIVEWAY&apos;S
AND THAT BLOCKED THE BACK BIKE
PATHS, WE VOTED DOWN THAT SITE
BECAUSE IT WAS GOING TO CREATE
A HARM TO THE COMMUNITY AND
THIS FEELS LIKE IT&apos;S IN THAT
STREAM.
BUT I&apos;M UNCERTAIN TO USE A
MIDWESTERN APPROACH HERE AND SO
SOME GUIDANCE WOULD BE HELPFUL
.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
IF YOU ARE IF THERE&apos;S
INFORMATION FIRST OF ALL, IT&apos;S
ALWAYS APPROPRIATE TO I WOULD
ALWAYS ADVISE YOU NOT IF YOU
DON&apos;T HAVE THE INFORMATION YOU
NEED TO MAKE A DECISION.
&gt;&gt; YOU SHOULDN&apos;T BE MAKING THAT
DECISION, OF COURSE.
SO AND THAT STARTING WITH YOUR
PREFACE OF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO HAVE
THOSE ISSUES EXPLORED BEFORE
YOU&apos;RE COMFORTABLE MAKING THAT
FINDINGS AS THEY RELATE TO
THAT.
MY RECOMMENDATION WOULD BE
THERE TO TABLE OR POSTPONE THE
ITEM TO PROVIDE AND PROVIDE MR.
KHAN WITH THE DIRECTION OF THAT
INFORMATION THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL AND NECESSARY FOR THE
COMMISSION TO DO SO AND THEN
THAT WOULD BE A CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE TIMING THAT IT WOULD
TAKE TO DO THAT.
AS I SAID, PROBABLY THE INITIAL
THOUGHTS WOULD BE AS AS MR.
COHEN SAID, SOME SPACE TO TO
REVISIT THE NOTION OF THE RAMP
WITH ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS.
WE WOULD BRING THE CITY&apos;S
ENGINEERS IN THAT PROCESS AND
WE PROVIDE FEEDBACK FROM THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT ABOUT ADA
ACCESSIBILITY WHICH WOULD I
THINK SPEAK TO WHAT
REQUIREMENTS EXIST AND WHETHER
THIS WAS MEETING THOSE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS OR NOT WITH THE
CHAIR&apos;S PERMISSION.
&gt;&gt; CAN I ASK A QUESTION TO
COMMISSIONER SAUVé WITH
COMMISSIONER OFFICE PERMISSION
YOU MIGHT NOT.
&gt;&gt; SO WOULD YOU ENTERTAIN A
AMENDMENT HERE?
WOULD YOU WANT TO TABLE IT
HERE?
LIKE WHAT DO YOU THINK THE LIKE
IS HELPFUL FOR OUR CONVERSATION
BECAUSE I WANT TO DEFER TO YOUR
EXPERTIZE.
YEAH.
I MEAN AND THAT&apos;S WHERE I&apos;VE
STATED MY CONCERNS.
I THINK THE PETITIONER
UNDERSTANDS MY STRONG CONCERNS
AND STAFF HAS TO THEM AS WELL
AND IT IS REALLY A AN AMENDMENT
TO HAVE THIS REVIEWED ONE
PROCEEDING I FEEL COMFORTABLE
WITH BUT YOU KNOW, HAVING A
SECOND LOOK WITH STAFF AND WITH
THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT TO
COORDINATE SO I STAFF TO KIND
OF FOLLOW THROUGH AND SORT
OF REVISIT AND AND BRING THIS
BACK TO US.
BUT I DO WANT TO HEIGHTEN THE
ATTENTION TO THAT AS IT
PROCEEDS FORWARD FOR STAFF.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW IT KIND OF ENDS HERE
LIKE THIS IS KIND OF A CHECK
POINT, RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ANY MORE IN TERMS OF MOVING
FORWARD.
BUT I DO I DO HAVE CONCERNS
.
I THINK WE HAVE A WELL EQUIPPED
STAFF TO ANSWER MANY OF THOSE
AND KIND OF ADDRESS THEM WITH
THE PETITIONER AT THIS POINT.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO STATE IT FOR
THE PUBLIC RECORD THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE SHOULD BE
MORE RESPONSIBLE LOOKING AT
WHEN PROJECTS COME TO THE TABLE
BECAUSE THIS WELL MIGHT MEET
THE BASIC STANDARDS AND SEVERAL
KIND OF TIERS.
IT&apos;S THIS CONVERGENCE POINT
BETWEEN PLANNING AND BUILDING
CODE AND THIS KIND OF ACCESS
POINT OF WHEN PLANNING MEETS
THE PROPERTY LINE AND WHEN
BUILDING CODE MEETS THE
BUILDING EDGE AND HOW PEOPLE
TRANSITION FROM ONE TO THE
OTHER THAT FEELS LIKE A LIFE
SAFETY CONDITION THAT WE SHOULD
BE HAVING BIGGER DISCUSSION
AROUND.
SO WITH THAT I GUESS I CAN HAVE
ONE MORE QUESTION FOR IT AND
THIS ONE&apos;S TO THE CHAIR.
SO CHAIR MEALS IS UH IS THERE A
MECHANISM AVAILABLE TO US IN
YOUR JUDGMENT THAT WILL EITHER
ALLOW US TO AMEND THE APPROVAL
PENDING THE OUTCOME OF THE
ENGINEERING REVIEW OR DO YOU
RECOMMEND THAT WE PUT AN
AMENDMENT IN PLACE TO POSTPONE
PENDING THAT INFORMATION?
SO HOPEFULLY WAS CLEAR OK, YEAH
THEN AND ACTUALLY I APPRECIATE
THAT AND I AM GOING TO RESPOND
WITH A QUESTION TO STAFF
BECAUSE I DO SEE I HEARD TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS RIGHT.
I HEARD A MOTION TO POSTPONE
WHICH IS INFINITELY DOABLE AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT WE WOULD TYPICALLY
DO.
WE NEED MORE INFORMATION.
WHAT I ALSO HEARD AND CORRECT
ME IF I&apos;M WRONG IS AN APPROVAL
CONTINGENT UPON STAFF REVIEWING
WHICH IN MY ESTIMATION AGAIN
THIS IS AND THE REASON THAT I
HAVE THE QUESTION IS WHETHER
STAFF&apos;S COMFORTABLE THAT UNDER
WHAT IF THE ANSWER IS NO LIKE
IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM FEASIBLE
REASONABLE LIKE BECAUSE THIS IS
TYPICALLY WE HAD WE&apos;VE DONE
THAT IN THE PAST WHEN WOULD GO
ON TO CITY COUNCIL.
SO THIS IS WHY I WANT TO
PROPOSE I&apos;M LOOKING BEHIND ME
TO MR. LEONARD BUT ALSO WOULD
ASK MR. WOULD THAT SECOND
OPTION HOW HOW DO YOU A STAFF
FEEL ABOUT THAT?
BECAUSE I CAN SEE I HAVE MIXED
FEELINGS ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;LL START I TYPICALLY
WHEN YOU ADD A CONDITION LIKE
THAT IT&apos;S TO SEEK AN OUTCOME
AND SO IF IT IF THE DESIRE WAS
TO AMEND THE MOTION TO SAY THIS
IS APPROVED WITH THE FOLLOWING
MODIFICATIONS, THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF A CLEAR ADA
ACCESSIBLE PATH TO THE GARAGE
DOORS AND THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF A RAMP TO THE PATIO TO
PROVIDE OR ONE OR THE OTHER
THAT&apos;S A CLEAR MEASURABLE I AM
ALSO I WANT TO BE CLEAR I&apos;M
HAPPY IF IT IS APPROVED SUBJECT
TO WORKING WITH STAFF TO
CONSIDER THESE OPTIONS.
WITH THAT I WANT TO BE CLEAR
THOUGH THAT WITHOUT A
REQUIREMENT THAT THAT JUST
REMAINS DISCRETIONARY.
&gt;&gt; SO IF IF IT&apos;S EDUCATIONAL
THAT YOUR DESIRE IS I WOULD
SUGGEST THAT THAT&apos;S BEEN
ACCOMPLISHED BY THIS DIALOG IF
YOUR INTENTION IS THAT ONE
OF THESE SOLUTIONS HAS TO BE
INTEGRATED IN ORDER FOR IT TO
MEET THOSE STANDARDS, YOU COULD
DO IT WITH THAT CONDITION.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD BE LESS EXCITED
ABOUT APPROVING IT, SUBJECT TO
INVESTIGATING WHETHER OR NOT
THESE THINGS ARE POSSIBLE.
I WOULD RATHER WORK WITH THE
PETITIONER TO ANSWER THOSE
QUESTIONS DEFINITIVELY, BRING
IT BACK TO THE COMMISSION FOR
CONSIDERATION AND IT JUST HAS
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE AND I
SEE YOUR HAND, COMMISSIONER
CLARK, SO I&apos;LL COME TO YOU.
BUT THAT&apos;S FOLLOWING UP ON THIS
THIS IDEA OF HAVING CONDITIONS
IF WE APPROVE IT ONLY WITH
THOSE CONDITIONS AND THIS
TYPICALLY HISTORICALLY WHERE WE
WOULD TURN TO THE PETITIONER
AND SAY DO YOU WANT US TO VOTE
ON THAT WITH THESE CONDITIONS
OR WOULD YOU LIKE US TO
POSTPONE THIS JUST IS THAT MY
IS MY RECOLLECTION OF THAT
CORRECT.
OK, I&apos;M IN CASE YOU CAN&apos;T SEE
THERE ARE NODS ON THE SIDE SO
COMMISSIONER WHICH BEFORE
TURNING IT OVER TO COMMISSIONER
CLARK, DOES THAT ANSWER YOUR
QUESTIONS?
OK, AWESOME.
SO I THINK THAT THOSE ARE THOSE
ARE THE TWO IN MY MIND THE TWO
REASONABLE THINGS APPROVED WITH
CONDITIONS OR POSTPONE AND I
THINK OPENING IT IF I WERE IN
YOUR SHOES OPENING IT BACK UP
AND ASKING KIND OF A OF THE
PETITIONER MIGHT BE HELPFUL.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER CLARK, I AGREE
WITH THE COMMISSIONER&apos;S
CONCERNS AND WOULD PREFER TO I
DON&apos;T FEEL LIKE WE HAVE ENOUGH
INFORMATION TO MAYBE POSTPONE.
I&apos;M JUST A CURIOSITY FOR MY OWN
KNOWLEDGE.
THIS IS I THINK THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE IS A NINETEEN HUNDRED
BRICKHOUSE.
IS THIS REQUIRED TO GO UNDER
ANY LIKE HISTORIC REVIEW
COMMISSION OR ANY OTHER BODY OR
IS IT JUST US I DON&apos;T KNOW WHO
WOULD BE DIRECTED.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GOING TO DIRECT THAT
STAFF.
I&apos;LL BE A THREAT TO THE HOUSE
ON THIS SITE IS NOT IN AN
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO SO THEREFORE
IT&apos;S NOT PROTECTED BY OUR
HISTORIC PRESERVATION ORDINANCE
I THINK AND I&apos;M JUST ONE OTHER
QUESTION I MY UNDERSTANDING
RIGHT THAT EACH ONE OF THE
GARAGES WILL BACK OUT ONTO
MILLER OR IS IT THERE A SINGLE
CURB?
I&apos;M JUST LOOKING AT THE
PICTURES I&apos;M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND DESIGN A LITTLE
BETTER OR IS IT UNDERGROUND?
I THINK THAT COULD BE EITHER
FOR STAFF OR FOR THE PETITIONER
AND THE I I HAD THAT SAME
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; THIS PLAN SHOWS THAT MAYBE
IF ONE OF YOU ARE ABLE TO SHARE
THE SITE PLAN, WELL, KATHY&apos;S
GOING TO PULL THAT IMAGE UP.
I CAN ATTEMPT TO ANSWER THAT IF
YOU&apos;RE IN A VEHICLE AND DRIVE
ON TO THE SITE, YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
BE DRIVING TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND PULLING INTO ONE
OF THE GARAGES THAT ARE LOCATED
ON THE GROUND LEVEL AND IT
LOOKS LIKE CATHY HAS BROUGHT UP
THE IMAGE.
SO CATHY, WOULD YOU MIND
CONTINUING THAT DISCUSSION?
&gt;&gt; SO THIS IS THERE IS ONE
DRIVEWAY OFF OF MILLER THAT
IT&apos;S LOCATED RIGHT HERE WHERE
MY CURSOR IS.
THESE ARE INDIVIDUAL GARAGES.
SO YOU WOULD PULL IN AND THEN
PULL INTO YOUR GARAGE IF YOU&apos;RE
BACKING OUT YOU WOULD BACK OUT
INTO THIS AREA AND THEN COME
OUT THE DRIVEWAY.
&gt;&gt; YOU WOULD NOT BE BACKING
OUT.
IT&apos;S MILLER AVENUE.
&gt;&gt; YOU WOULD BE BACKING OUT
INTO THIS SPACE HERE AND THEN
GOING FORWARD OUT ONTO MILLER
AND UP THE GARAGE LEVEL ON THE
ARCHITECTURAL SENSE THAT
OBVIOUSLY IS A BIG PART OF THIS
ONGOING DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU
THERE.
THANKS.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
IF THAT HELPS ANYBODY
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE CURRENT
ISSUE ARE PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS OR NOT SHOWING
THE ABILITY TO PARK TWO CARS IN
THERE OR PARK ONE CAR IN THERE
THESE GLASSES ARE WIDER THAN WE
TYPICALLY DO.
&gt;&gt; ONE CAR GARAGE IS 14 FEET
PART POINT OF ORDER TERMINALS I
I WOULD ADD I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND
WHAT HE&apos;S DOING RIGHT NOW
BECAUSE WE HAVEN&apos;T ASKED HIM A
QUESTION.
THE CATHY PREVIOUSLY ANSWERED
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; SO CAN WE COME BACK TO THE
TABLE?
DO YOU GO AHEAD KIND OF A
FOLLOW UP ON THAT TO WHEN YOU
MENTIONED THE WASN&apos;T POSSIBLE
BECAUSE OF THE I&apos;M MILLER
MAKING IT WORSE THEN I THINK
KIND OF A BRIEF MENTION WAS
MADE THAT THERE MIGHT BE SOME
CONCESSION ON THE WAY THAT THE
GARAGE WAS CONFIGURED IF THE
WAS DIFFERENT, COULD YOU JUST
ELABORATE ON WHAT KIND
OF CONCESSIONS WOULD HAVE TO BE
MADE OR IF THAT WAS THE CASE
OF A MISUNDERSTANDING ABOUT
WHAT WOULD HAVE TO CHANGE WHAT
THE DESIGN LET ME GET BACK TO
THE SITE IN HERE FOR YOU
.
&gt;&gt; SO WHAT WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT ORIGINALLY WE HAD
CONSIDERED PUTTING A RAMP HERE
.
THIS IS THE EXISTING SIDEWALK
AND OUR IT ALREADY EXCEEDS ADA
BUT IT MATCHES THE STREETS SO
IT&apos;S ALLOWED TO BE THAT WAY IF
WE WERE TO PUT A RAMP HERE WE&apos;D
HAVE TO CREATE A LEVEL LANDING
AREA OUT IN HERE.
AND WHEN YOU DO THAT THAT MAKES
A FLAT SPOT.
SO WHEN YOU DO THAT THEN IT
MAKES THE OF THE SIDEWALK EVEN
WORSE THAN IT ALREADY IS.
&gt;&gt; SO WE LOOKED AT THAT.
WE ALSO LOOKED AT TRYING TO
GIVE IT A RAMP ALONG HERE.
IN FACT, WE LOOKED AT A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT CONFIGURATIONS TO
TRY TO GET A RAMP ON THERE.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHEN YOU DO THAT YOU CUT
INTO THE GARAGE SPACE AND YOU
CAN NO LONGER HAVE THE SPACE
THAT YOU HAVE A GARAGE BECAUSE
IT&apos;S THE RAMP WOULD START HERE
AS OPPOSED TO AND IT WOULD HAVE
TO GO THROUGH THE GARAGE AND
THEN COME UP AND AS YOU&apos;RE
COMING UP YOU&apos;D GET TO A PATIO
LEVEL BUT IT WOULD IMPACT
GARAGE FOR SURE
.
ANYTHING ELSE, COMMISSIONER
CLARK?
I THINK THAT HELPS TO
UNDERSTAND THAT THE CONCESSION
WOULD BE JUST THE GARAGE WOULD
HAVE SLIGHTLY LESS SPACE FOR
TENANTS WAS HELPFUL.
THANK YOU KNOW, I REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; SORRY IF I&apos;M JUMPING IN FOR
ANYBODY ELSE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
QUESTION THAT HELPED ME
UNDERSTAND KIND OF WHAT THE
TRADE OFFS TO ARE
FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE I HADN&apos;T THOUGHT
ABOUT THE SAFETY SO THANK YOU
FOR BRINGING THAT UP.
I I THIS IS A PLACE WHERE
PARKING IS NOT REQUIRED AND AND
SO THAT&apos;S EIGHT SPACES ACTUALLY
SIXTEEN SPACES BECAUSE THE
GARAGES ARE ARE DESIGNED TO
DOUBLE UP ARE PROVIDED.
I AGREE THAT THERE&apos;S SOME
FLEXIBILITY THAT THAT OFFERS I
WOULD YOU FOR STORAGE OR OTHER
THINGS BUT ACTUALLY THE
SOLUTION THAT CUTS INTO THE
GARAGE SPACE AND MAKE SOME
OF THOSE NOT BE FULL DOUBLE
DEPTH IS NOT CONCERNING AT ALL
TO ME AND THAT SEEMS LIKE A FAR
PREFERABLE SOLUTION IN MY MIND
AND SO I CERTAINLY IN SUPPORT
OF EITHER THE POSTPONEMENT
OF THIS TO ALLOW FOR A DESIGN
THAT WOULD ACCOMMODATE THAT
APPROVAL OF CONDITIONS THAT
WOULD FORCE THAT OR KIND
OF WHAT YOU KNOW, ANOTHER
OPTION IS PROVIDING, YOU KNOW,
DEDICATED PEDESTRIAN ACCESS ON
THE BACKSIDE.
&gt;&gt; THIS TO ME SEEMS LIKE A
REASONABLE SOLUTION NOT
REDRAWING IT HERE BUT JUST
HEARING KIND OF THE TRADE ARE
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A TRADEOFF THAT I
THINK IS REALLY REASONABLE.
OVERALL THOUGH, I WANT TO SAY
LIKE I THINK THAT THIS THIS
ISSUE NEEDS TO BE SOLVED BUT
I&apos;M EXCITED WITH THE IDEA THAT
THIS PROPERTY IN OUR DOWNTOWN
AREA CAN NOW HOUSE EIGHT
FAMILIES RATHER THAN THE I
DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MANY UNITS ARE
CURRENTLY IN THE BLUE BUILDING
OR WERE IN THE BLUE BUILDING
PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
&gt;&gt; BUT I IT WAS OFFICE OK, SO I
WAS GOING TO SAY I CAN&apos;T
IMAGINE THAT IT&apos;S MORE THAN TWO
AND THAT&apos;S EXCITING TO ME.
THIS IS THE RIGHT PLACE FOR
THIS.
I APPREC THE WAY THAT IT IS
DESIGNED IN CONJUNCTION WITH
ITS NEIGHBOR AND PROVIDING AN
AMENITY YOU KNOW LIKE I I THINK
THAT THIS IT&apos;S DISTINCT
ARCHITECTURALLY DISTINCT WHICH
I THINK IS NICE.
IT&apos;S NOT JUST THE SAME THING.
SO I&apos;M REALLY I&apos;M EXCITED ABOUT
THIS BUILDING AND SO I WHILE I
RECOGNIZE THE EMBODIED ENERGY
IN THE EXISTING STRUCTURE, A
TWO STOREY STRUCTURE BUILT IN
THE 19TH CENTURY IS DEFINITELY
NOT ADA COMPLIANT I&apos;VE GOT TO
BELIEVE.
AND SO I MEAN I SEE THAT THIS
IS THIS IS A HUGE BENEFIT BUT
THE SAME POINT LIKE WE&apos;VE GOT A
LOT OF THAT KIND OF STRUCTURE
AND OUR CITY AND WE DO WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT WHAT WE&apos;RE
BUILDING ALLOWS PEOPLE TO AGE
IN PLACE.
I I ONE OF THE POINTS THAT I
THINK KIND OF TIED UP IN HERE
IS THIS IDEA OR THAT I THAT I
HADN&apos;T HEARD AND I&apos;M STILL NOT
SURE ABOUT IS IF YOU HAVE A
VEHICLE IF YOU ARE DISABLED AND
HAVE A VEHICLE LIKE DO YOU HAVE
SPACE TO GET OUT OF THAT
BECAUSE I&apos;M NOT I DON&apos;T KNOW
THE DIMENSIONS BY THIS IS A
PLACE WHERE YOU COULD LIVE
WITHOUT A CAR.
YOU SHOULD LIVE WITHOUT A CAR
ULTIMATELY HOPEFULLY I DON&apos;T
LIKE I MEAN YOU COULD TOTALLY
LIVE WITHOUT A CAR AND SO
MAKING SURE THAT YOU CAN SAFELY
GET INTO YOUR UNIT WITHOUT A
CAR IS REALLY IMPORTANT HERE.
SO I&apos;M SUPER I&apos;M VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS.
&gt;&gt; I HOPE THAT ONE WAY OR THE
OTHER WE CAN GET TO THE
SOLUTION ON THE ON MAKING IT
ACCESSIBLE THROUGH THE FRONT
DOOR EFFECTIVELY I RATHER THAN
PUSHING IT OFF ON ANOTHER I
THINK I WILL DIRECTLY ASK THE
THE PETITIONER WOULD YOU LIKE
US TO POSTPONE THIS?
WOULD YOU PREFER CONDITION THAT
IT THAT IT WOULD BE DESIGNED TO
ALLOW FOR A RAMP UP.
YEAH I&apos;LL PUT IT ON YOU WATCH.
&gt;&gt; WHICH DO YOU PREFER MAY I
ASK THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
THE QUESTION OF YOU WELL I
WOULD LIKE TO ASK THE QUESTION
OF THE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW YOU CAN ASK ME.
&gt;&gt; YEAH GO AHEAD.
ARE YOU ASKING US TO DO
SOMETHING ABOVE AND BEYOND
WHAT&apos;S REQUIRED BY BUILDING
CODES
?
I AM.
&gt;&gt; WHAT I&apos;M LOOKING AT IS THE
SAFETY CONCERNS ASSOCIATE WITH
THIS FROM A PLANNING
PERSPECTIVE.
&gt;&gt; SO I I AM NOT SURE HOW TO
ANSWER THAT.
&gt;&gt; MR. LEARNER, CAN YOU HELP
HOW TO ANSWER THAT?
I MEAN I THINK THIS WOULD BE A
ON THE STANDARD OF NOT CREATING
A NUISANCE SO IT IS CONCEIVABLE
THAT IT WOULD BE ABOVE AND
BEYOND THE MINIMUM REQUIRED BY
THE BUILDING CODE FOR THAT
PURPOSE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
CAN I ASK YOU A QUESTION?
YES, I THINK YES WE ARE PART
ONE OR IN TWO OF ONE&apos;S GARAGES.
CAN WE GET AROUND ON THAT SITE
BY PUTTING A LANDING PAD AT THE
ENTRANCE?
SO FROM WHAT I&apos;M UNDERSTANDING
THEY&apos;RE REQUESTING THE LANDING
PAD WOULD HAVE TO BE ON YOUR
PROPERTY?
YES.
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE&apos;D HAVE
TO GO BACK AND LOOK AT IT, MAKE
IT INTO ONE TWO ONE TWO A ONE
IN THREE MONTHS SCRATCHES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE COMMISSIONER ASKED US A
DIRECT QUESTION HOW WE&apos;D LIKE
TO PROCEED AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; WE LOOKED AT THIS ISSUE I
GUESS WE&apos;RE CERTAINLY OPEN AND
I&apos;M IN RESPOND HERE WITH A YES
BUT A QUESTION YOU&apos;RE CERTAINLY
OPEN TO HAVING TO APPROVE THIS
PROJECT ON THE CONDITION THAT
WE ARE ABLE TO PUT A RAMP UP TO
THE FIRST FLOOR LANDING IF THAT
IF WE GET SHOT DOWN IN
ENGINEERING&apos;S THERE&apos;S
ABSOLUTELY NO WAY I WOULD EVER
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
&gt;&gt; DOES THAT MEAN WE CAN COME
BACK WITH THE SAME PROJECT?
DOES THAT MEAN THAT WE&apos;RE TOAST
AND HAVE TO START OVER BECAUSE
I MEAN WE WANT TO GO IN
DEVELOPING OUR FOR THIRTY ONE
YEARS.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT TO DO WHAT&apos;S RIGHT
HERE AND SO I&apos;M HAPPY TO HAVE
YOU WITH THAT CONDITION.
I THINK WE CAN GET IT TO WORK
AGAIN.
WE LOOKED AT IT BUT WHAT
HAPPENS IF WE CAN I GUESS IS MY
QUESTION.
CAN WE COME BACK AND LOOK AT
OTHER OPTIONS FOR THE GARAGE?
IS THAT PLANNING COMMISSION
THREE MONTHS FROM NOW IT
DOESN&apos;T WORK OUT OR WHAT?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S MY QUESTION.
THAT&apos;S A GREAT QUESTION THAT I
AM GOING TO DIRECT TO STAFF
WHAT HAPPENS IF WE DO IT WITH A
WITH A PRESCRIPTIVE SO IF THE
CONDITION IS THAT IT IS A
PRESCRIPTIVE REQUIREMENT THAT
WOULD HAVE TO BE SATISFIED IN
ORDER FOR THE PROJECT TO
PROCEED.
&gt;&gt; SO IF IT WAS DETERMINED AT
SOME FUTURE POINT THAT THAT WAS
NOT FEASIBLE THEY WOULD HAVE TO
SUBMIT A NEW SITE PLAN THAT
AMENDED MADE THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS THAT COULD BE
REALIZED AND THEN THAT WOULD BE
CONSIDERED UNDER WHATEVER
REQUIREMENTS DEPENDING ON THAT
CHANGE TO THE PLAN ARE
PRESCRIBED BY THE ORDINANCE.
SO IN SHORT, IF IT COULDN&apos;T BE
REALIZED THEY WOULD HAVE TO
SUBMIT A NEW SITE PLAN THAT
COULD BE REALIZED AND THAT
WOULD GO THROUGH THE NORMAL
REVIEW PROCESS BASED ON
POTENTIALLY A MODIFICATION OR
AMENDMENT TO THE EXISTING PLAN
OR IF IT WERE SOMETHING
DRASTICALLY DIFFERENT MIGHT
COME FULLY BACK.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION BUT IT
WOULD SET THE EXPECTATION THAT
THAT HAD TO BE ACHIEVED TO
PROCEED OK, IF THAT SORRY GO
AHEAD THEN IF I MARISTA IF I
MAY I RESPECTFULLY REQUEST THAT
YOU POSTPONE THIS BECAUSE IT
SEEMS TO MAKE MORE SENSE THAT
WE TRY AND WORK IT OUT WITH
STAFF AND ENGINEERING NOW AND
JUST COME BACK TO IT THE NEXT
MEETING OR THE NEXT MEETING
AFTER THAT I CAN AGREE TO S MAY
NOT BE ACHIEVED AFTER RESUBMIT
AND GO THROUGH REVIEW BY
EVERYBODY WHICH DOESN&apos;T MAKE
ANY SENSE TO ME.
&gt;&gt; OK ALSO I WANT TO SAY YOUR
ARCHITECT HAS BEEN POLITELY
HOLDING RAISING IN HAND SO IF
YOU WANT TO CONTRIBUTE TO THIS
CONVERSATION GO AHEAD SO
EVERYONE REALIZES THAT SOMEONE
IN A WHEELCHAIR CANNOT APPROACH
THIS SITE BECAUSE THE GRADES
ARE TOO STEEP ALONG MILLER SO
TO INVITE THEM TO TRY TO
APPROACH A SITE COMING DOWN
MILLER YOU&apos;RE PUTTING THEM IN
DANGER SO THE DISCUSSION WAS
WITH SOMEONE A GUEST COMING TO
THIS BUILDING A DRIVE IN AND
HAVE ACCESS TO THE ELEVATOR AND
GET UP AND DOWN VERSUS TRYING
TO HAVE THEM PARK IT AND ASHLEY
COME ACROSS THE STREET AND THEN
ENDANGER THEMSELVES ON A STEEP
RATE ON THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY.
WHAT YOU&apos;RE ASKING FOR IS WE
HAVE A SITE THAT YOU CAN&apos;T
APPROACH BUT YOU WANT THE SITE
WHEN WE DEVELOP IT TO BE
COMPLIANT EVEN THOUGH NO ONE
CAN GET TO THE SITE FROM THE
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I AND I WOULD SUGGEST THIS IN
MY MIND SOLIDIFIES WHY FURTHER
DISCUSSION AND POSTPONEMENT SO
FURTHER DISCUSSION WITH STAFF
TO GET AT THAT I ONE OF THE IN
THAT DISCUSSION WHAT I&apos;M HOPING
WOULD HAPPEN IS THAT THERE&apos;S
DISCUSSION OF IF YOU ARRIVE IN
A VAN THAT HAS A LIFT IF THAT&apos;S
WHAT IT&apos;S CALLED OFF TO THE
SIDE WHERE ACTUALLY YOU WOULD
PARK THAT IF THESE GARAGES ARE
ACTUALLY WIDE ENOUGH FOR THAT
LOOK THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M HOPING
THAT YOU GUYS CAN HAVE I I CAN
SEE I CAN I CAN I SEE ALL
OF THE COMPLEXITIES HERE BUT I
WOULD REALLY LIKE STAFF&apos;S
PROFESSIONAL RECOMMENDATION
WITH LOTS OF YOU KNOW, LOTS
OF CONSIDERATION IN THAT I&apos;M
NOT GOING TO MAKE THE MOTION TO
POSTPONE I&apos;M GOING TO WAIT FOR
SOMEBODY ELSE TO MAKE THAT
BECAUSE THERE&apos;S A LOT OF HANDS
TO GOODNESS.
&gt;&gt; THIS HAS RAISED A LOT
OF THINGS IS IT&apos;S DIRECTLY ON
THIS COMMISSIONER CLARK?
&gt;&gt; NO, I JUST WANTED TO KIND
OF KINDLY POINT OUT TO YOU THAT
WE&apos;RE NOT NECESSARILY ONLY
TALKING ABOUT PEOPLE IN
WHEELCHAIRS.
THERE&apos;S OTHER KINDS OF REASONS
THAT PEOPLE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
DRIVE THEIR MIND AND YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S ANN ARBOR.
THERE&apos;S A WHOLE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE THAT ARE ONE CAR OR
NO CAR HOUSEHOLD.
SO THE WHEELCHAIR POINT SEEMS A
LITTLE BIT OF A TEN TANGENTIAL
I MEAN LIKE YES, THE GRADE IS
IMPORTANT FOR WHEELCHAIRS BUT
THERE&apos;S ALSO PEOPLE THEY HAVE
VISUALLY IMPAIRED OR MAY BE
ELDERLY.
ANY NUMBER OF REASONS THEY MAY
NOT BE IN A WHEELCHAIR SO BUT
STILL NEED ACCESS WITHOUT A
VEHICLE COMMIT UH,
COMMISSIONER, GIVE BRANDL AND
THE COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
SO TO HAVE A VAN ACCESSIBLE AND
I&apos;LL YOU NEED 13 FEET SO YOU
COULD GET SOMETHING.
IT DEPENDS ON WHERE YOU&apos;RE
PARKING WITHIN THAT SYSTEM TO
BE ABLE TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
THE THING IS IS THAT THE
ELEVATORS KIND OF COME INTO
THAT SPACE TOO.
SO IT&apos;S THE FACT THAT THE
ELEVATORS KIND OF IN THE MIDDLE
OF IT THAT MAKE IT A LITTLE
TRICKY BECAUSE YOU CAN SLIDE
THE CAR BY YOU KNOW BUT I MEAN
I THINK IT&apos;S I THINK THIS IS
GOING TO BE TRICKY.
I THINK THERE IS A CHANCE WITH
THIS BECAUSE OF THE EXISTING
GRIDS OUT THERE AT THE SIDEWALK
THAT THE ENGINEERING MAY SAY
YOU CAN&apos;T DO THIS BECAUSE A
LEVEL LANDING SHOULD ACTUALLY
BE AT THE TURNING SPOT NOT ONCE
YOU&apos;VE ALREADY TURNED IN TERMS
OF HOW YOU DESIGN IT.
SO THIS IS THE THING THAT IT&apos;S
JUST A REALLY TRICKY SITE.
IT&apos;S A REALLY TRICKY SITE.
SO THIS IS A THING THAT&apos;S TOUGH
ABOUT THIS IS THAT WE MAY HAVE
TO HAVE KIND OF THE LESSER
OF TWO EVILS AND AND SO I&apos;M NOT
SAYING THAT IT&apos;S NOT WORTH
EXPLORING BUT THIS IS A REALLY
TRICKY SITE.
THIS IS THIS IS NOT A
STRAIGHTFORWARD SOLUTION HERE
AT ALL IN TERMS OF THE LETTER
OF THE LAW OF HOW YOU&apos;RE
SUPPOSED TO DO THIS.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK WE NEED TO KIND
OF THINK ABOUT LIKE WHAT
HAPPENS.
IT&apos;S A VERY REAL POSSIBILITY
THE ENGINEERING WILL SAY NO,
YOU CAN&apos;T MAKE THAT SIDEWALK
ANY STEEPER.
YOU CAN&apos;T PUT YOUR LEVEL OUT
THERE.
SO WHAT DOES THAT MEAN FOR US?
SO I JUST WANT US TO BE REALLY
AWARE OF THAT IN TERMS OF HOW
WE&apos;RE SHUNTING THIS THROUGH THE
SYSTEM AND WHETHER YOU KNOW,
WHETHER THERE&apos;S LIKE ONE OF THE
UNITS AT THE END IS HAS MORE
SPACE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO THE THAT CAN YOU KNOW, THEY
CAN ACCESS IT MORE EASILY OR
SOMETHING.
MAYBE THERE&apos;S A WAY TO KIND
OF MAKE I KNOW THAT&apos;S TRUE
OF MANY PLACES IN TOWN WHERE
THEY HAVE A COUPLE
OF ACCESSIBLE UNITS.
I MEAN THESE ARE LIKE MOSTLY
ACCESSIBLE REALLY I MEAN THERE
REALLY ARE BUT MAYBE THERE&apos;S
ONE THAT EVERYBODY SACRIFICES A
LITTLE BIT SIX INCHES OR
SOMETHING, YOU KNOW, WHO KNOWS
SO THAT THERE&apos;S SOME WAY TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE ONE THAT IS MORE
CLEAR BECAUSE I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT
WE CAN MAKE THIS ALL WORK GIVEN
THE SITE CONSTRAINTS THAT ARE
THERE AND SO IF IN TERMS
OF MAKING IT TRICKY FOR PEOPLE
PULLING IN BECAUSE I AGREE WITH
WHAT THE ARCHITECT THAT IT&apos;S
LIKE IT&apos;S REALLY STEEP ON
MILLER.
IT&apos;S LIKE WAY BEYOND WHAT WHAT
YOU WOULD HAVE TO HAVE A RAIL
GOING UP BOTH SIDES TO BE ABLE
TO MAKE THAT CODE COMPLIANT IN
TERMS OF IT BEING A RAMP.
&gt;&gt; SO ONE THING NOT RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, SO ANYWAY I JUST WANT TO
SAY SOMEBODY WHO DESIGNS THESE
THINGS THAT&apos;S SOME OF THE
COMPLICATIONS THAT I JUST WANT
US TO BE IF WE GO THAT ROUTE
IT&apos;S NOT A SLAM DUNK.
IT&apos;S NOT SO I MEAN I&apos;M NOT
SAYING WE CAN DESIGN IT ALL
HERE RIGHT NOW BUT IT FURTHER
SOLIDIFIES JUST BEFORE I PASS
IT OVER IN MY MIND LIKE PUSHING
PAST LETTING HAVING MORE
DISCUSSION ON THIS AT THE STAFF
LEVEL TO SORT OUT WHAT IT IS
THAT ENGINEERING REQUEST.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANKS.
THIS IS AN INTERESTING
DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU FOR POINTING THAT OUT
ABOUT THE GRADE MILLER AND THAT
WHAT IS A WHAT IS A RAMP GOING
TO ACHIEVE?
SO I&apos;M WONDERING TO THE
PETITIONERS I&apos;M LOOKING AT THE
SITE PLAN.
YOU&apos;VE GOT EIGHT DIFFERENT
GARAGES, EIGHT DIFFERENT
ELEVATORS FOR UNITS THAT ARE
NOT MULTISTORY.
DID YOU CONSIDER A FLOOR PLAN
OPTION THAT WAS MAYBE NOT
GARAGES BUT JUST OPEN PARKING
UNDERNEATH AND LIKE A CENTRAL
ELEVATOR OR AN ELEVATOR IN THE
CORNER THAT GOES UP IN INTERNAL
DOORWAYS TO ACCESS THE UNITS
RATHER THAN HAVING THESE
EXTERNAL DOORWAYS?
WAS THERE EVER ANY SORT OF PLAN
LIKE THAT YOU THOUGHT ABOUT OR
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT COULD BE
THOUGHT UP?
&gt;&gt; SURE THAT WOULD BE A
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THAT WOULD BE A TRUE
CONDOMINIUM.
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE MODIFIED
TOWNHOUSES.
BUT WHAT I WAS TRYING GET TO
EARLIER IS I WANT TO MAKE THE
POINT THAT THE ENTIRE DRIVEWAY
SERVICING THESE GARAGES
COVERED THE BUILDING SITS OVER
IT SO IT&apos;S NOT LIKE PEOPLE THE
THOUGHT PROCESS HERE THIS
CONCERN THAT CARS ARE GOING TO
BLOCK THE ELEVATOR.
SO I THOUGHT PROCESS AT THE BUS
FOR SOMEONE TO GET OUT IS TO
PULL INTO THIS FLAT DRIVEWAY
OPEN GARAGE DOOR AND GO UP THE
ELEVATOR IF YOU&apos;RE IN A
WHEELCHAIR AND IT&apos;S COMPLETELY
COVERED , I THINK THAT&apos;S A VERY
EASILY DOABLE BASED ON THE SIZE
OF THESE GARAGES OR STORAGE
AREAS, WHATEVER YOU WANT THEM
TO CALL WHETHER THEY HAVE ZERO
CARS IN ONE CAR TO HARD TO DO
THAT AND THAT ESSENTIALLY IS
WHAT OUR ENGINEER CATHY KAYNA
WORKING WITH CITY ENGINEERING
STAFF DETERMINE.
WHAT&apos;S THE BEST WAY TO GET IN
THIS?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
BUT IF YOU&apos;RE IN A WHEELCHAIR I
THINK YOU&apos;RE GOOD.
RANDALL JUST POINTED OUT IT&apos;S
NOT WIDE ENOUGH TO ACTUALLY
PULL INTO A GARAGE AND GET OUT
WITH THEIR RIGHT.
IT&apos;S NOT WIDE ENOUGH FOR YOU TO
BE IN A WHEELCHAIR AND BE ABLE
TO EXIT YOUR VEHICLE AND HAVE
THAT CLEARANCE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S WHAT POINT THAT IS IT&apos;S
VERY WIDE UNDERNEATH BUILDING
THE ENTIRE HOUSE YOUR DRIVEWAY
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY SEVEN
FOOT DRIVEWAY IS COMPLETELY
COVERED BY THE BUILDING.
SO WHEN YOU PULL IN YOU DON&apos;T
NECESSARILY HAVE TO PULL IN
YOUR GARAGE.
I ACCESS YOUR ELEVATOR IF
THAT&apos;S THE OVERRIDING CONCERN
ABOUT SAFETY OR HAVING ROOM ARE
THERE ARE THERE PLACES THOUGH
TO PARK OUTSIDE OF THEIR NO
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU WERE IN A
WHEELCHAIR YOU COULD NEVER PARK
IN YOUR GARAGE IS WHAT I&apos;M
HEARING.
&gt;&gt; NO, NO.
YES YOU CAN PASS IN YOUR
GARAGE.
YOU CAN PARK IN THE GARAGE.
IT&apos;S WIDE ENOUGH TO KNOW IT&apos;S
IF YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT THE YOU&apos;RE
LOOKING AT THE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; YEAH IT 13 FEET THERE&apos;S 14
FEET BUT THE ELEVATOR KIND
OF KICKS IN TO IT FOR JUST A
MOMENT IN THE MIDDLE AND SO YOU
COULD PULL SOMETHING ALL THE
WAY FORWARD AND GET OUT AND GO
AROUND THAT THING THAT&apos;S TRICKY
ABOUT IT IS THE WAY THE DOORS
ARE EXIS ON THE SIDE THAT&apos;S
WHAT&apos;S KIND OF TRICKY ABOUT IT
IF THEY WERE BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW
HOW ELSE TO DO IT AT THIS POINT
YOU GET EITHER RIGHT FROM
EXACTLY RIGHT.
SO IT DEPENDS ON HOW BIG YOUR
CAR IS ESSENTIALLY IS WHAT IT
COMES DOWN TO THE ISLAND.
&gt;&gt; YEAH BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE SUPPOSED
TO BE 18 FEET LONG AND SO YOU
KNOW, WHATEVER THEY HAVE A
LITTLE BIT EXTRA AND THIS IS
AGAIN IN THE SORT OF DUE
DILIGENCE OF KIND OF FIGURING
THIS OUT.
BUT I ALSO SEE THAT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
NOT A YEAH, IT&apos;S NOT AN EASY
ONE.
ANYTHING ELSE, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT?
OH, THANKS.
I&apos;M SO CONFUSED IF WE&apos;RE
POSTPONING IT ANYWAY THEN
EMOTIONALLY THANK YOU FOR THE
BACK UP JUST A BIT TALK ABOUT
DEVELOPMENT A LITTLE GENERALLY
I THINK OVERALL THE INTENT
OF THE D TO ZONING IS MET THE
BUILDING MACING TO ME SEEMS
APPROPRIATE RELATIVE TO THREE
NINE.
I ACTUALLY LIKE THE
MATERIALITY.
I THINK IT LOOKS GOOD.
I THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO CREATE A
LOT OF VISUAL DIVERSITY AS YOU
WALK UP AND I GUESS I&apos;VE WALKED
THIS PARTICULAR PATH EVERY DAY
FOR TWO YEARS BETWEEN 2014 AND
2016.
SO I KNOW THIS DRIVEWAY VERY
WELL.
I THINK THIS WOULD BE A VAST
IMPROVEMENT.
IT WAS I&apos;D PARK AT MCKINLEY
TECH CENTER AT THE VERY BOTTOM
OF THE HILL.
I WALKED UP THIS WAY PRETTY
MUCH EVERY SINGLE DAY SO IT
WOULD BE A STRAIGHT UP
DANGEROUS I THINK FOR SOMEBODY
IN A WHEELCHAIR ON THIS
PARTICULAR ROAD.
IT&apos;S A GOOD WORKOUT THOUGH AS
YOU WALK UP THAT HILL ALL THAT
SAID, I THINK THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF GOOD POINTS OBVIOUSLY I
APPRECIATE THE DISCUSSION.
I JUST WANTED TO ZOOM OUT A
LITTLE BIT AND SAY HEY, I THINK
THIS IS AN IMPROVEMENT OF THE
SITE.
I THINK THAT THIS IS ACTUALLY A
UNIQUE DESIGN BASED ON THE
CHALLENGES ARCHITECTURALLY.
AND I THINK WHAT&apos;S INTERESTING
TO ME AT LEAST IS I LIKE THE
FOLIAGE THAT&apos;S KIND OF ON THAT
SOUTHERN AND IT&apos;S GOT THAT KIND
OF VEHICULAR AREA.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE SOME KIND
OF A MIRROR OR SOMETHING THAT
GIVES YOU A LITTLE BIT MORE
VISIBILITY OF THAT SIDEWALK
JUST JUST BECAUSE OF THE BUT
THE LINE OF SIGHT LOOKS GOOD.
THE ENTRY WAY THAT WE&apos;VE BEEN
KIND OF FOCUSING ON ABOUT THE
STAIRCASES AND SUCH TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT I ACTUALLY LOVE
THE CONCEPT OF ACTIVE EATING
LIKE THE FRONT KIND OF PORCH
AREA AND THIS CONCEPT OF LIKE
HAVING THIS ACTIVATED AREA FOR
THE RESIDENTS.
I THINK THAT&apos;S VERY IMPORTANT
FOR COMMUNITY EFFICACY FOR A
NEIGHBOR TO GET TO KNOW ONE
OF THEIR OTHER NEIGHBORS.
SO HAVING SUCCESSFUL QUASI
PUBLIC SPACES LIKE THIS I THINK
IS IMPORTANT AND SO I THINK
FROM A DESIGN STANDPOINT I
ACTUALLY THINK THIS IS A PRETTY
NEAT PROJECT.
I DO UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS
ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY AND SAFETY.
THOSE ARE OBVIOUSLY PARAMOUNT
.
THE ENTIRE POLICING AUTHORITY
OF LAW COMES FROM THE HEALTH,
SAFETY AND GENERAL WELFARE.
GIVEN THE CONTEXT OF ALL
OF THIS, I SUPPOSE I&apos;M OF THE
MINDSET THAT I ACTUALLY DO
THINK THAT THIS SCALE&apos;S WELL TO
THE BLOCK YOU HAVE APPROPRIATE
MACING THAT MASS TOWARDS
DOWNTOWN.
SO IT&apos;S KRAATZ LEGIBILITY FOR
THE PEDESTRIAN IS TRAVERSING UP
THIS WAY AND I CAN TELL YOU
JUST AGAIN FIRSTHAND I MADE
THIS WALK EVERY DAY SO AND
RIGHT NOW THAT BUILDING IS LIKE
PRETTY SET BACK AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
NOT THAT EXCITING.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S INTRODUCING
MORE OPTIONS.
SO OVERALL I JUST WANTED TO
THOSE ARE MY COMMENTS.
I WANT TO STEP BACK AND JUST
SAY I KNOW WE&apos;RE HYPER FOCUSED
ON THE THE ADA ACCESSIBILITY.
I THINK THE BUILDING AGAIN I&apos;M
NOT A BUILDING CODE EXPERT SO
I&apos;M JUST GOING TO ACTUALLY
LEAVE.
&gt;&gt; SO BUT OVERALL I THINK WITH
THE CHALLENGES OF A SITE
MATERIALITY MACING INTENT
OF THE ZONING HAVE BEEN MET
HERE SO I SUPPOSE I WILL LEAVE
IT AT THAT AND JUST WANT TO AT
LEAST INTERJECT MY MY COMMENTS
WITH RESPECT TO THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS WE&apos;RE
VERY HAPPY TO
GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER LEE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
JUST TO BE UNEQUIVOCAL, I HAVE
UTMOST RESPECT FOR OBVIOUSLY
COMMISSIONER SALVY.
I THINK THAT THAT WAS A IS A
VERY ASTUTE POINT THAT YOU
RAISED IHALA RESPECTFULLY HAVE
TO DISSENT ON THAT IF THIS WENT
TO A VOTE I WOULD BE VOTING IN
FAVOR OF IT IN THE CURRENT
DESIGN.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE THAT
UNEQUIVOCAL JUST AS WE PROCEED
HERE.
BUT I&apos;M ALSO IF IT NEEDS TO BE
POSTPONED FOR VIABILITY OF THE
PROJECT, I&apos;D ALSO BE ON BOARD
WITH THAT AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; THANKS OTHERS.
COMMISSIONER, WHICH WERE YOU
UNTIL I WAS MAKING A MOTION IT
FOUND THAT NO I WASN&apos;T GOING TO
MAKE A MOTION I WAS GOING TO
ACTUALLY DEFER TO COMMISSIONER
SAUVé FOR THE MOTION BUT IT
SOUNDED LIKE THE PETITIONER IS
OPEN.
IT IS OPEN TO THE FOUR THE
POSTPONEMENT AS OPPOSED TO US
AMENDING THE MOTION AT THE
TABLE AND THEN HAVING TO GO OFF
AND MEET THAT AMENDMENT.
AND SO HOW WOULD WE CAN WE GET
STAFF SUPPORT FOR THAT?
IS IT JUST A STRAIGHT
POSTPONEMENT?
WE JUST VOTE TO POSTPONE.
WE DON&apos;T NEED ANY LANGUAGE.
GREAT.
DO YOU THIS IS WHY YOU&apos;RE THE
CHAIR JAROMIL SO I&apos;LL DEFER TO
YOU FOR OUR NEXT STEP.
&gt;&gt; THERE YOU GO.
WELL, I&apos;M GOING TO TAKE THAT AS
A GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
THANK YOU.
UM, I FEEL A LITTLE TIRED AND
NOT SO I JUST WANT TO TRY TO
IRON THEM OUT FOR A MOMENT SO
THAT THE LOGIC BEHIND THE
POSTPONEMENT IS ONE SO THAT THE
PETITIONER AND STAFF IN
ENGINEERING AND PLANNING CAN
ADDRESS POTENTIAL SAFETY
CONCERNS ABOUT ACCESS TO THE
SITE FOR THOSE WITH LIMITED
MOBILITY.
BUT SEEMS LIKE IT&apos;S IMPORTANT
FOR US TO PARSE THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN SOMEBODY IN A
WHEELCHAIR AND JUST SOMEBODY
WHO HAS DIFFICULTY WALKING UP
STEPS.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE WHAT WE HAVE
HEARD IS THAT IF YOU ARE IN A
WHEELCHAIR YOU CANNOT APPROACH
THIS.
I&apos;M NOT SAYING IT&apos;S IN FACT I
KIND OF WANT THIS I&apos;M ASKING
FOR CONFIRMATION OF THIS
ASSUMPTION OR MY UNDERSTANDING
IS CORRECT IF YOU&apos;RE IN A
WHEELCHAIR APPROACHING THIS
SITE NOT IN A VEHICLE WOULD BE
VERY DIFFICULT BECAUSE COMING
UP OR DOWN MILLER IS ALREADY A
THAT EXCEEDS THE ADA.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU&apos;RE IN A WHEELCHAIR
YOU ARE PRESUMABLY ENTERING A
SITE IN A VEHICLE AND THEN THE
QUESTION IS HAS THERE BEEN
ENOUGH DONE TO ADDRESS HOW ONE
GETS INTO THE BUILDING FROM THE
DRIVEWAY?
&gt;&gt; AND THEN THE OTHER QUESTION
IS JUST IS IT OK TO HAVE A
STAIR AND NOT A RAMP THAT
CONNECTS THE SIDEWALK TO THE
COURTYARD FOR THOSE WITH MORE
LIMITED MOBILITY AND MAYBE WITH
LIKE NOD&apos;S IS THAT IS THAT
OTHERS UNDERSTANDING OF THIS?
BECAUSE I THINK ONE THING I&apos;M
WONDERING IS I DO THINK THAT
THE PETITIONER THOUGHT ABOUT
AND LOOKED AT ACCESS TO THE
COURTYARD WITH A RAMP FOR THOSE
NOT IN WHEELCHAIRS BUT BECAUSE
MILLER IS TOO STEEP BUT JUST
FOR THOSE MORE LIMITED MOBILITY
AND DECIDED FOR THE STAIR.
SO I JUST YEAH I MAYBE AM
FEELING LIKE WE TALKED ABOUT A
LOT OF THINGS AND IT COULD USE
SOME CLARITY CLARITY FOR ME AND
WHETHER THAT CHANGES ANYTHING
IN TERMS OF JUST ACTUALLY I
GUESS MAKING A MOTION FOR A
POSTPONEMENT SO THAT THESE
ISSUES CAN BE ADDRESSED MORE
THOROUGHLY OR WE HAVE MADE OUR
POINTS AND WE FEEL HEARD AND
THE PETITIONER UNDERSTANDS OUR
CONCERNS AND WE ASK THEM IN
GOOD FAITH TO ADDRESS THEM TO
THE BEST OF THEIR ABILITY.
I GUESS THOSE ARE THE OPTIONS
ON THE TABLE.
&gt;&gt; OK, I DIDN&apos;T HAVE A QUESTION
IN THERE SO I DON&apos;T KNOW WHO I
AM, WHO I WANT TO FOLLOW UP
WITH ME MAYBE YEAH.
MAYBE COMMISSIONER SAUVé
COMMISSIONER SAUVé I JUST
CLARIFY MY CONCERNS PERFECT IS
THE ENEMY OF GOOD AND LIKE WE
MAY NOT BE ACHIEVING FULL ADA
AND THAT&apos;S NOT THE REQUIREMENT
LIKE THE REQUIREMENT AT THE
PLANNING LEVEL BUT THERE ARE
CONCERNS ABOUT HOW WE&apos;RE
PUTTING PERSONS TRAVEL TO THIS
BUILDING IN THE SITE PLAN THAT
WE ARE REVIEWING.
WE ARE NOT LOOKING AT THE
BUILDING CODE .
RIGHT.
BUT I AM LOOKING AT THIS HOW
THE SITE IS PLANNED TO ACCESS
THE BUILDING AND WE ARE ASKING
PEOPLE TO EITHER MOVE IN FRONT
OF GARAGE DOORS AND ACCESS IN
THAT WAY OR MOVE UPSTAIRS SOME
OF THE DISCUSSION ABOUT LIKE
SACRIFICING SOME SPACE TO
CREATE RAMPS ON SITE MIGHT BE
POSSIBLE AND AGAIN TO PERFECT
THE ENEMY OF GOOD WHAT IS ON
MILLER VERSUS WHAT BECOMES MORE
MOBERLY FRIENDLY ON SITE SEEMS
POSSIBLE AND WORTHY OF ASKING
THE PETITIONER TO REVIEW.
AND SO YOU KNOW, I&apos;M SEEING
DIFFERENT OPTIONS.
I&apos;M TRACING SOMEBODY MAYBE IN A
MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR RIGHT.
MAYBE BEING DROPPED OFF AT THE
CORNER OF THE BLOCK AND MOVING
HALF A BLOCK LIKE THE EMPATHY
OF UNDERSTANDING HOW PEOPLE
MOVE IN THE TYPES OF PEOPLE IN
THE COMMUNITY CAN MAKE BETTER
PROJECTS AND WE&apos;VE REVIEWED
PROJECTS WHERE JUST CERTAIN
ABILITIES AROUND BIKES MOVING
THROUGH DRIVE THROUGH AND
THINGS LIKE THAT HAVE ACTUALLY
IMPROVED PROJECTS THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN BY RIGHT.
AND WE PUSHED A LITTLE FURTHER
AND I GUESS WHAT I&apos;M ASKING IS
TO PUSH THIS PROJECT A LITTLE
FURTHER TO BECOME A LITTLE
BETTER FOR THE REST IN THE
COMMUNITY THAT WE SHOULD HAVE
EMPATHY FOR TO INCLUDE.
SO THAT&apos;S REALLY MY QUESTION
OF THE PROJECT AND WHY I WOULD
MOVE TO POSTPONE SO WE COULD
SEE HOW WE CAN IMPROVE THIS FOR
THOSE SAFETY MEASURES TO ACCESS
THE BUILDING THROUGH THE SITE
PLAN, NOT WITHIN THE
ARCHITECTURE BECAUSE THAT&apos;S NOT
WITHIN OUR PURVIEW.
&gt;&gt; AND SO TO IMPROVE THE SAFETY
OF THE SITE PLAN FOR THOSE
PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST MOVED IT IN THAT
DISCUSSION.
SO THERE IS A THERE WAS TO SAY
THERE WAS A MOTION AS PART
OF THAT WHATEVER I WOULD LIKE
TO SECOND IT MOVED BY YOUR
SECONDED COMMISSIONER WHICH MR.
LEONARD&apos;S SO POSTPONEMENT WOULD
BE TO A DATE CERTAIN I WOULD I
WOULD SUGGEST WITH THE
PETITIONER&apos;S ACQUIESCENCE THAT
WE TRY TO KEEP THIS ON TRACK
AND MAYBE POSTPONE TO OUR NEXT
REGULAR MEETING OF MAY 4TH TO
WEDNESDAY.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T MY HESITANCY OF THAT
DATE IS THAT IF THERE ARE
MODIFICATIONS I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT
ALL THE DRAWINGS WILL BE ABLE
TO BE MODIFIED.
BUT GIVEN THAT THEY HAVE
ALREADY SPENT SOME TIME
INVESTIGATE THESE ASPECTS, I&apos;M
OPTIMISTIC THAT WE COULD AT
LEAST COME WITH A VIABLE
CONCEPT BY THAT POINT THAT
COULD BE THEN IDENTIFIED,
COMFORTABLE, COMFORTABLE AND
LIKE REFINED THROUGH CIVIL
WORK.
&gt;&gt; SO SO I WOULD JUST ASK THAT
IF THE MOTION IS IS CONSIDERED
THAT IT BE AMENDED TO REFLECT A
SPECIFIC DATE I WOULD START
WITH MAY 4TH.
APART FROM THAT WE DO HAVE A
PRETTY BUSY AGENDA ON THE 17TH
.
&gt;&gt; SO THE NEXT OPTION AFTER
THAT WOULD BE JUNE SEVEN.
THE FOURTH SEEMS FRIENDLY.
YES COMMISSIONER WHICH I AM
COMPLETELY DEFERRING TO
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
SO YES, GREAT DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION TO POSTPONE ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION AND IF YOU DIDN&apos;T
AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S
VERY ABLE LIKE DESCRIPTION
OF WHAT PASSING THROUGH THIS
DISCUSSION SPEAK NOW.
&gt;&gt; YES.
THE VALIDITY WITH THE
PETITIONERS THAT THEY ARE IN
AGREEMENT WITH THAT TIME FRAME
AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; VERY YES.
PETITIONERS IS WOULD A
POSTPONEMENT TO MAY 4TH SEEM
REASONABLE TO EXPEDITE THIS SO
I&apos;M GOING TO MAKE A COMMENT AND
I DON&apos;T MEAN TO SOUND
DISRESPECTFUL BUT THEN WE NEED
TO HAVE A COMMITMENT THAT STAFF
IS GOING TO BE RESPONSIVE
ENOUGH TO GIVE US COMMENTS BACK
AND WORK WITH US SO THAT WE CAN
GET IT BACK TO YOU AND BEFORE
THAT IT&apos;S ONLY TWO WEEKS.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH.
AND I WANT TO I THINK THAT&apos;S
AND THAT&apos;S SORT OF MY COMMENT
THE NOTION OF HAVING REVISED
PLANS DONE BY THAT TIME I THINK
ARE AMBITIOUS.
I THINK THAT IF IT WENT BACK TO
THAT PLAN IT WOULD PROBABLY BE
WITH A SHARED VISION THAT THAT
A CONDITION COULD BE ADDED
BECAUSE THERE IS A PLAN BY
WHICH THOSE PLANS COULD BE
MODIFIED IN THE FUTURE TO MAKE
THAT IF THE
COMMISSION IS MORE
DESIROUS TO HAVE DETAILED PLANS
THAT REFLECT ANY CHANGES, I
THINK MORE TIME WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; MY MY INSTINCT IS LET&apos;S KEEP
IT ON TRACK, PROVIDE A LITTLE
BIT MORE INVESTIGATION TIME.
WE CAN BRING A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF THE CITY&apos;S PERSPECTIVE ON
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT THE
PROJECT ENGINEER HAS ALREADY
VALIDATED AND IF AT WORST IT
COULD BE POSTPONED AGAIN BUT IT
KEEPS IT ON TRACK TO TRY AND
ANSWER THE QUESTION MORE
QUICKLY.
&gt;&gt; CAN I ASK ANOTHER I WAS
GOING TO GO BACK TO YOU TO SAY
OK, SO WHAT DO YOU THINK?
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
I THOUGHT I HEARD THIS BUT I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I&apos;M
CLEAR THAT THIS IS WHAT I HEARD
IS THAT YOU&apos;RE NOT INTERESTED
IN CHANGING THE ARCHITECTURE
OF THE BUILDING OR THE
ELEVATORS.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT YOU WANT IS SOMEHOW
FOR US TO RAMP ON THE SITE SO
THAT YOU HAVE ACCESS FOR
MILLER.
IS THAT WHAT I THINK THAT IN
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S KIND
OF SUMMARY THAT THAT&apos;S ONE
OF THE THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
POTENTIAL WAYS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
THAT WOULD THAT WOULD BE A
EXPLORING THAT WOULD BE
IMPORTANT.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT FAIR?
BUT IT&apos;S NOT IT DOESN&apos;T HAVE TO
BE IT&apos;S MORE LIKE UNDERSTANDING
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS FOR
DIFFERENT MODES.
I APPRECIATE THE QUESTION
BECAUSE IT&apos;LL BE HELPFUL FOR US
AS WELL.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
THERE&apos;S SORT OF TWO
INVESTIGATIONS A RAMP TO THE
FRONT PATIO REVISITING THAT
CONVERSATION THAT THE
PETITIONER HAS ALREADY
DISCUSSED AS IT RELATES TO THE
GREAT AND SECOND IMPROVING
ACCESSIBILITY IN THE GARAGE
AREA BY POTENTIALLY REDUCTION
OR RECONFIGURATION OF OF SOME
OR ALL OF THOSE GARAGES TO
IMPROVE ACCESSIBILITY FOR UNITS
IN THAT SPACE AS WELL.
SO BOTH OF THOSE ARE TO BE
INVESTIGATED AS IS MY
UNDERSTANDING.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
SO I WOULD LIKE THE KIND
OF THIRD PIECE IS YOU OR THE
ASSUMPTION, RIGHT.
LIKE IF THE STAIRS MAINTAIN AND
THE ASSUMPTION IS THE
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE IS THROUGH THE
GARAGE HOW AMANDA TO BE
IMPROVED, HOW THAT WOULD BE
IMPROVED SO COMING DOWN THROUGH
A DRIVEWAY IN SOMEBODY&apos;S
BACKING OUT OF A GARAGE WHILE
THEY&apos;RE TRAVERSING TO UNIT FOUR
,SEEN THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S WHY THERE&apos;S
THERE&apos;S TWO ENTRIES AND THERE&apos;S
LIKE TWO ENTRY POINTS TO
ELEVATORS TO ENTRY FRONT DOORS
AND SO IT COULD BE SOLVED IN A
MULTITUDE OF WAYS.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I JUST WANT TO SEE
THAT TAKE DOES THAT HELP A
LITTLE BIT?
&gt;&gt; WELL, IT DOES AND I WANTED
TO KIND OF QUESTION I THINK IT
REALLY WAS TRYING TO FIND AN
IMPROVED SOLUTION WHERE WE&apos;RE
NOT SAYING THAT IT&apos;S
ACCOMPLISHING EITHER IS GOING
TO BE A BENEFICIAL IT&apos;S NOT A
BOTH.
SO I BUT I JUST WANTED TO BE
CLEAR THAT IT WAS A COUPLE
OF POTENTIAL RECONFIGURATIONS
TO EXPLORE NOT JUST THE ONE
.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT TIMING OK?
I IS THAT DOES THAT ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S KIND OF YES.
THANK YOU.
AND WITH THAT AND THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT IT IS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION YOU COULD
NOT SEE US ALL NODDING OUR
HEADS WHEN DHAIF WAS EXPLAINING
THAT TWO WEEKS FROM NOW IT IS
UNLIKELY THAT WE WOULD HAVE
FULL FLIGHT PLANS THAT HAVE
BEEN FULLY VETTED BUT
UNDERSTANDING THAT WE COULD
LOOK AT BASED ON YOUR
CONVERSATIONS THAT TRANSPIRE
BETWEEN NOW AND THEN AND ANY
WHICH OF THE MULTIPLE THINGS
ARE EXPLORED COULD BE
POTENTIALLY ADDED AS CONDITIONS
TO APPROVING THIS SITE PLAN
SUBJECT TO WHATEVER AGAIN THOSE
THE SOLUTION IS THAT TRANSPIRES
IN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS.
&gt;&gt; DOES THAT DOES THE TIMING
OF THE TWO WEEKS COMING BACK TO
US SEEM REASONABLE TO YOU ALL
?
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE CAN MAKE IT WORK.
AS I SAID BEFORE, AS LONG AS WE
CAN GET STAFF TO COOPERATE AND
BE RESPONSIVE SO THAT WE CAN
GET SOME GOOD ANSWERS FOR YOU.
UM, PARTICULAR ABOUT THE
SIDEWALK AND MILLER AND WHAT
WOULD HAVE TO HAPPEN SO THAT
AND THEN ALSO WITH THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT I MEAN WE CAN
CERTAINLY TRY TO MAKE THE TWO
WEEKS HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M JUST NOT CONFIDENT THAT
WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
COORDINATE WITH STAFF INCLUDING
ENGINEERING AND THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT TO TRY TO GET THAT
ALL PULLED TOGETHER.
WE WILL TRY OUR BEST BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS IF WE CAN&apos;T
GET TO THE ANSWERS AND GET A
RESULT THEN IT CAN BE POSTPONED
AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS CORRECT.
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; AND I JUST WANTED TO COMMIT
TO PETITION WE WILL DO OUR BEST
TO ACHIEVE THAT TIMEFRAME AS
WELL AND IF WE HAVE TO VOTE ON
A SECOND POSTPONEMENT WE&apos;LL ASK
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHY SO ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONED MEANT SO JUST TO THE
PETITIONER&apos;S COMMENT I I WANTED
TO BE CLEAR THAT WE&apos;RE NOT
ASKING THEM TO GO BACK AND PUT
THE RAMP FROM THE SIDEWALK TO
THE SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
IT WAS LOOKING AT THE
ACCESSIBILITY INSIDE THE GARAGE
OR THE THE PATIO SPACE.
SO BECAUSE I GOT LOST IN THAT
LAST PART I THINK IT IS
EXPLORING BOTH BUT NOT
NECESSARILY RETASKING ABOUT
PUTTING A FLAT ON THE
PUBLIC SIDEWALK.
OK, GREAT IS THAT THAT&apos;S MY
PART IN THAT LAST PART THAT YOU
JUST SAID IS THE PART I WANTED
TO BE CLEAR THAT&apos;S WHAT I THINK
YOU HEARD IN THAT YOU WERE
ACTIVE TOO BECAUSE I WAS
THINKING THE SAME THING.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU FOR ANYTHING
ELSE ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
BEFORE VOTING ON A
POSTPONEMENT, MR. LENNOX, DO
YOU WANT TO ROLL CALL FOR THIS?
&gt;&gt; ONLY IF YOU DO NO, I THINK
WE CAN VOTE WITH HANDS ALL IN
FAVOR OF A POSTPONEMENT.
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND.
I SEE ALL OF THE HANDS.
THIS IS POSTPONED.
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU IN TWO WEEKS
PLUS A DAY BECAUSE OF A
WEDNESDAY MEETING.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
IT IS NINE O&apos;CLOCK DOING A
BREAK BEFORE THE NEXT PETITION
.
&gt;&gt; NO, I&apos;M NOT SEEING ANYBODY.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS SHAKE
YOUR HEAD.
YES, OK, LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO A B
TWENTY SIX HUNDRED PONTIAC
TRYAL ANNEXATION AND ZONING FOR
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THIS IS AN ANNEXATION FROM ANN
ARBOR TOWNSHIP INTO THE CITY.
THE PETITIONERS THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR AND WE HEARD A
PETITION FROM THEM PREVIOUSLY
THIS WOULD ADD TO THAT WOULD
ADD FIVE POINT SEVEN ACRES TO
THAT SITE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M PRESUMING THAT THEY ARE
JOINING US ONLINE.
YES, THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
I&apos;M GETTING THEM PROMOTED HERE
ONE MOMENT.
&gt;&gt; OK, I THINK MR. BUSH WILL BE
KICKING OFF THE PRESENTATION IF
I RECALL FIRST SHARING SLIDES
IT WOULD BE CORRECT.
MY GOODNESS
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
WHAT ABOUT READY TO GO?
DO YOU HAVE DO YOU SEE EVERYONE
ON ZOOM THAT YOU&apos;RE EXPECTING
FROM YOUR SIDE?
&gt;&gt; MR. BUSH?
&gt;&gt; WE ALSO HAVE A DARRIAN WITH
THE ROBERTSON BROTHERS WITH US.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU SEE HIM
THERE TO PROMOTE OTHERWISE GOOD
TO
ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL START THE CLOCK WHEN
YOU START.
SOUNDS GOOD.
I JUST SHARE MY SCREEN HERE
.
PEOPLE SEE MY SCREEN.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
PERFECT.
SO I&apos;LL KEEP THIS BRIEF AND
THEN CERTAINLY OPEN THE FLOOR
TO QUESTIONS TOWARDS THE END
THERE.
&gt;&gt; BUT JUST WANT TO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONERS.
AND WE&apos;RE HERE FOR ANNEXATION
PROPOSAL AND REZONING PROPOSAL
FOUR TO SIX ZERO ZERO PONTIAC
TRAIL ANOTHER PARCEL THAT&apos;S
ASSOCIATED WITH THE VILLAGE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK YOU REMEMBER BACK IN
DECEMBER THERE WAS A PROPOSAL
FOR ANNEXATION THAT WAS FRONT
OF YOU AND A RECOMMENDATION FOR
APPROVAL GRANTED FOR THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR PROJECT
FIVE PARCELS ANNEXED FROM THE
TOWNSHIP IN ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP
INTO THE CITY AND WE HAVE
ANOTHER PARCEL UNDER CONTROL
FIVE POINT SEVENTY ONE ACRES
THAT WE ARE PROPOSING SIMILARLY
TO ANNEX IN TO THE CITY AND
REZONING TO THE SAME ZONING AND
BRING IT INTO THE PROJECT ARE
FOR A SO I&apos;M JUST HERE FOR YOU
TONIGHT FOR YOUR FOR THIS
PROPOSAL FOR YOUR APPROVAL
OF THIS ADDITIONAL PARCEL AND
GOT STAFF REVIEWS AND STAFF
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR APPROVAL.
SO WITH THAT I&apos;LL JUST OPEN THE
FLOOR TO STAFF PRESENTATION AND
WE&apos;LL BE HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE.
VERY GOOD.
THAT WAS WELL WITHIN YOUR TEN
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, MR. CON, THANK
YOU.
THIS IS A GOOD IMAGE TO HAVE
BECAUSE IT SHOWS THE WHOLE
HOLDING THE PETITIONER IS
PROPOSING A RESIDENTIAL PROJECT
THAT CONSISTS OF TOWN HOMES AS
WELL AS STACKED UNITS.
SOME OF THE UNITS WILL BE OWNER
OCCUPIED, SOME WILL BE RENTAL
AND WAS AN OPPORTUNITY THAT
POPPED UP DURING THE PROCESS
OF PROPOSING A SITE PLAN FOR
THE FIVE PARCELS THAT ARE BEING
SHOWN IN THIS IMAGE.
SO THIS WILL ADD TO THEIR
HOLDINGS.
THE PROJECT IS AN EXCITING ONE
BECAUSE
IT BRINGS WITH IT A LOT
OF ADDITIONAL RESIDENTIAL
UNITS.
IT&apos;S ALSO A VERY CHANNON SITE
THERE IS A LAND THERE&apos;S A
LANDFILL ON THE SITE.
THERE&apos;S ALSO QUITE A BIT
OF GRAVEL FILL THROUGHOUT
PORTIONS OF THE SITE.
SO I DO THINK THAT THIS
ADDITION WILL GIVE THE
PETITIONER A LITTLE BIT MORE
DESIGN FLEXIBILITY STAFF IS
WRECKING RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
OF THIS FIVE POINT SEVEN ACRE
PARCEL.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH THIS SITE PLAN WITHOUT
THIS PROJECT, WITHOUT THIS
PARCEL AT THIS TIME.
AND SO YOU MAY BE SEEING A SITE
PLAN THAT EXCLUDES FIVE POINT
SEVEN ACRE SITE WITHIN THE NEXT
COUPLE OF MONTHS.
HOWEVER, ONCE THE STATE ANNEXES
THIS PARCEL, THE PETITIONER
WILL ADD IT TO THE SITE PLAN
AND COME BACK AGAIN WITH A
SLIGHTLY REVISED PLAN.
SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S MY
UNDERSTANDING OF HOW THE
PETITIONER WOULD LIKE TO GO GO
FORWARD, CONTINUE WITH THE MAIN
SITE PLAN AS AS THEY HAVE
SUBMITTED AND THEN WHEN THIS
PETITION WHEN THIS ANNEXATION
PETITION IS APPROVED BY THE
STATE TO ADD IT TO THE SITE
PLAN AND COME BACK AGAIN WITH A
SLIGHTLY REVISED PLAN, STAFF
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
WE WILL NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS PETITION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE SIX
HUNDRED PONTIAC ANNEXATION AND
ZONING WILL FIRST CALL ON THOSE
WHO ARE HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
IF YOU&apos;VE JOINED VIA ZOOM YOU
CAN PRESS THE RAISED HAND
BUTTON.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU HAVE DIALED IN YOU
CAN PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE AND IF YOU ARE WATCHING
US RIGHT NOW YOU CAN CALL IN AT
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
THEN ENTER OUR MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY
FOUR TWELVE TWENTY SIX ONE
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
SOUND SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY EITHER WAY
OF PARTICIPATE PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD IS THERE PLEASE?
THANK YOU CHAIRMAN KEN GARBER
AGAIN THIS IS ONLY A SMALL PART
OF A MUCH LARGER PARCEL.
I&apos;M CONFUSED THOUGH AND MAY BE
COMMISSIONER GISH COULD ADDRESS
A QUESTION OF MINE THE PREVIOUS
CITY COUNCIL ANNEXATION OF THE
LARGER PARCEL.
DID THAT ALSO INCLUDE THE
REZONING OF THE PARCEL?
I GUESS OUR FORAY OR IS THAT IS
THAT REZONING STILL PENDING?
SO IT&apos;S JUST A QUESTION I HAVE
AND IF THAT&apos;S A CASE THEN TELL
ME A PLAN THAT YOU&apos;LL BE
CONSIDERING DOWN THE ROAD AS
THE STAFF AND THE PETITIONER
JUST MENTIONED RATHER THAN A
REZONING PETITION.
SO JUST A QUESTION I ASK IT
BECAUSE YES, THIS IS A VERY
DESIRABLE PROJECT BUT WE 564
UNITS THE DIRECT CLIMB IN
CLIMATE IMPACT OF FIVE HUNDRED
SIXTY FOUR FURNACES WILL BE 70
TIMES THE IMPACT OF 212 MILLER
.
I HOPE THE PETITIONER IS
THINKING HARD ABOUT HOW TO
COMPLY WITH THE BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION ELEMENTS OF OUR
ZERO PLAN IF IT PROCEEDS WITH
GAS THIS WILL BE A DISASTER FOR
OUR CITY CLIMATE GOALS BUT BUT
YES FOR TONIGHT IF IT&apos;S
ANNEXATION YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT
MAKES TOTAL SENSE DEFINITELY GO
FORWARD WITH IT.
BUT THERE IS A REALLY, REALLY
BIG QUESTION HERE PENDING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO&apos;D
LIKE TO PARTICIPATE?
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NOT.
ALL RIGHT THEN I&apos;LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND READ THE
MOTION.
IT&apos;S PRETTY SHORT.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE ANNEXATION
OF TWENTY SIX PONTIAC TRAIL
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER YJ
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DISH.
ANYBODY WANT TO KICK OFF OTHER
THAN I JUST REALIZED THAT IN
READING WHAT THE TITLE OF IT IS
IT INCLUDES THE ZONING SO
ANSWER YOUR QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; ALL WE&apos;RE REALLY TALKING
ABOUT IS ANNEXATION.
YES, THAT&apos;S I&apos;LL KICK OFF WITH
THAT QUESTION AND I&apos;M LOOKING
BACK.
&gt;&gt; BUT MR. CON, YOU CAN ADDRESS
THAT TO I&apos;D BE HAPPY TO ADDRESS
THAT WAS BEFORE YOU TODAY IS A
PETITION FOR FOR ANNEXATION.
SO THE WITH US RIGHT NOW WE
HAVE SOME SUGGESTED WHAT WE IF
IT IS APPROVED BY THE STATES
THE ANNEXATION THAT&apos;LL BE A
SECOND STEP.
BUT WHAT THE ZONING WOULD BE
THAT BUT THE ZONING IS A SECOND
STEP CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; I CAN I CAN SUMMARIZE THAT
PROCESS NOW IF YOU&apos;D LIKE
PLEASE.
THE CITIES ARE ABLE TO TAKE
ACTION ON A PETITION UNTIL THE
PROPERTY HAS BEEN ANNEXED.
SO THE FIRST WAVE IS TO REQUEST
ANNEXATION THAT TAKES QUITE A
FEW MONTHS BECAUSE IT DOES
REQUIRE PLANNING COMMISSION
REVIEW COUNCIL APPROVAL, THE
COUNCIL THE TOWNSHIP TO RELEASE
THE PARCEL AND THEN IT GETS
SENT OFF TO THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN&apos;S OFFICE OF THE
GREAT SEAL AND AND FACT THAT
CAN TAKE SOME TIME SO
PETITIONERS TYPICALLY LIKE TO
GET THE ANNEXATION PORTION
GOING IN IN IN THIS CASE THE
THE FIVE PAST THE FIVE ORIGINAL
PARCELS THAT HAVE BEEN ANNEXED
ARE NOW ABLE TO GO TO PLANNING
COMMISSION AND COUNCIL FOR SITE
PLAN APPROVAL AND ARE FOR A
ZONING AND SO THAT IS GOING TO
BE COMING TO YOU OVER THE NEXT
COUPLE OF MONTHS.
SO YOU&apos;LL BE ENTERTAINING A
SITE PLAN AND OR FOR A ZONING
RECOMMENDATION THAT YOU&apos;LL BE
MAKING TO CITY COUNCIL.
THIS SITE PLAN WILL GO TO CITY
COUNCIL BECAUSE IT INCLUDES A
REZONING AND SO YOU&apos;LL
HOPEFULLY SEE THIS WITHIN A
COUPLE OF MONTHS.
IT&apos;LL GO TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
FINAL ACTION ON THE SITE PLAN
AND OR FOR A ZONING THANK YOU
FOR CLARIFYING OTHER QUESTIONS
ON THE ANNEXATION OR COMMENT.
CAN WE JUST VOICE OR CAN WE.
&gt;&gt; OH SORRY.
SORRY COMMISSIONER.
GIVE BRANDL I TURN MY HEAD TOO
QUICKLY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH RIGHT.
YEAH I JUST WANT TO BECAUSE I
KNOW THIS IS PART OF A BIGGER
PICTURE TOO AND I JUST HOPE THE
PETITIONERS ARE ALSO PAYING
ATTENTION TO WHAT SOME OF THE
HISTORICAL VEGETATION IS IN
THIS AREA.
IF YOU LOOK BACK AND SOME
OF THE OLD HISTORICAL AERIALS
THERE&apos;S LIKE A HEDGEROW THAT
MOVES THROUGH AT THE BACKSIDE
OF THIS PROPERTY THAT LOOKS
LIKE IT PROBABLY HAS SOME BIG
OLD OAKS IN THERE AND I KNOW
THERE&apos;S PROBABLY A BUNCH OF
STUFF IN THERE TOO.
BUT THEN THERE&apos;S ALSO IN SOME
OF THESE OTHER AREAS THAT AGAIN
ARE OUTSIDE OF WHAT WE&apos;RE
VOTING ON TONIGHT BUT BUT LOOK
LIKE THERE&apos;S SOME SOME REALLY
NICE AT LEAST FROM THE AERIALS
MORE NATIVE FOREST FRAGMENTS
AND I WOULD HOPE THAT THE
PETITIONER IS REALLY THINKING
ABOUT HOW TO DESIGN WITH AND
AROUND THESE THINGS RATHER THAN
JUST STARTING WITH YOUR UNITS
AND JUST LETTING EVERYTHING
FALL WHERE THEY MAY.
SO PLEASE TAKE SOME TIME TO
THINK ABOUT SOME OF OUR
ORDINANCES AROUND THIS AND
RIGHT NOW AN ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION THERE IS SOME
MOVEMENT AROUND CREATING A
HERITAGE TREE PROTECTION
STATUS.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHEN THAT&apos;S GOING
TO BE DONE IN COMPARISON WHEN
YOU&apos;RE ACTUALLY COMING THROUGH
THE PROCESS BUT IT ADDS ANOTHER
LAYER SO OF OF REALLY TRYING TO
WORK AROUND THE THE SIGNIFICANT
AND IMPORTANT TREES THAT WE
HAVE.
SO I WOULD HOPE THAT THE
PETITIONER IS NOT ONLY PAYING
ATTENTION TO OUR A TWO ZERO
PLAN FROM THE GET GO BUT ALSO
SOME OF OUR NATURAL FEATURES
ORDINANCES FROM THE GET GO AS
WELL.
THIS IS A BIG SITE AND I REALLY
HOPEFUL THAT YOU WILL BE
SENSITIVE TO THE THINGS THAT WE
VALUE IN THIS COMMUNITY SO THAT
WE CAN COME UP WITH THIS PLAN
THAT REALLY WORKS FOR EVERYBODY
.
&gt;&gt; OTHER QUESTIONS, COMMENTS
YOU NEED US TO ROLL CALL.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
I DON&apos;T SEE ANY OTHER HAND SO
PLEASE COMMISSIONER SILVER.
&gt;&gt; YES, COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S
YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER LI YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
COMMISSIONER LI YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES, COMMISSIONER YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER BRANDELL.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER BRANDELL.
MOTION CARRIES VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; YES.
ALL RIGHT.
MOTION CARRIES VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
ITEM EIGHT C THE PRESENTATION
THANK YOU.
ON THE ANN ARBOR SUSTAINABLE
ITEM EIGHT C THE PRESENTATION
ENERGY UTILITY
YOU ARE
PROMOTING A FAMILIAR FACE FROM
YOUR LAST MEETING
, MR. SMITH.
&gt;&gt; WELCOME BACK.
&gt;&gt; HELLO.
GOOD TO SEE YOU ALL AGAIN.
YOU TOO.
THANKS FOR STICKING WITH US.
HEY, I THINK THAT WE GO
DIRECTLY TO I WAS GOING TO SAY
YOU&apos;RE SHARING YOUR SCREEN
WOULD GO DIRECTLY TO THE
PRESENTATION SO YOU&apos;VE GOT A
CAPTIVE AUDIENCE RAISE
.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S COMING THROUGH.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU CAN SEE THIS YOU CAN CALL
WELL THANK YOU FOR THE CHANCE
TO PRESENT TONIGHT IN OUR TIME
TOGETHER.
I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU A BRIEF
OVERVIEW OF WHAT THE SIU IS
AGAIN, MY NAME IS ZACH.
I&apos;M A COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
SPECIALIST IN THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;LL TAKE A LOOK PSU AND
HOW IT COULD OPERATE IN ANN
ARBOR AND WHEN THE NEXT STEPS
SO JUMPING RIGHT INTO IT HERE
AS I&apos;M SURE MANY OF YOU KNOW,
ANN ARBOR HAS SET AN AMBITIOUS
GOAL OF ACHIEVING ZERO CLIMATE
POLLUTION BY THE YEAR 2030 AND
TO UNDERSTAND HOW TO ACHIEVE
THAT GOAL, IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND WHERE OUR CLIMATE
POLLUTION COMES FROM AND IF YOU
DON&apos;T ALREADY KNOW LOCALLY 40
PERCENT OF OUR COMMUNITY WIDE
POLLUTION KNOWN AS GREENHOUSE
GAS EMISSIONS OR GHG COME FROM
BUILDING ELECTRICITY USE AND
NEARLY TWO THIRDS OF OUR PHDS
COME FROM BUILDING ELECTRICITY
USE PLUS NATURAL GAS USED TO
HEAT OUR BUILDINGS AND OUR
WATER.
&gt;&gt; GIVEN THIS REALITY, WE KNOW
THAT THE SOLUTIONS TO REDUCING
LOCAL CLIMATE POLLUTION
NECESSITATES FINDING PATHWAYS
TO CLEAN OUR ELECTRICITY GRID
AND SUPPORT THE TRANSITION AWAY
FROM FOSSIL FUELS LIKE GAS FOR
HEATING AND COOLING TO CLEAN
ELECTRICITY
.
AND I WAS ON THE WRONG SIDE.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S TAKE A LOOK AT THIS
ONE SO AS WE LOOK AT WAYS TO
IMPROVE THE RELIABILITY AND
ENERGY MIX OF OUR ENERGY
SUPPLY, IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND THE ENERGY LANDSCAPE
IN MICHIGAN.
ANN ARBOR HAS WHAT IS KNOWN AS
A PREFERENCE ACT FRANCHISE AND
WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT DTC HAS
THE RIGHT IN PERPETUITY TO
PROVIDE POWER TO THE CITY.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, THE ACT FRANCHISES
ARE NOT EXCLUSIVE AND THE
MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION PROTECTS
THE RIGHTS OF CITIES AND
VILLAGES TO CREATE THEIR OWN
MUNICIPAL UTILITY AND THIS CAN
BE DONE EITHER VIA A TAKING OR
A CONDEMNATION AND A BUYOUT
OF INCUMBENT UTILITY AND THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE OR THROUGH THE
CREATION OF A SUPPLEMENTAL
UTILITY TO DATE EVERY COMMUNITY
THAT HAS STARTED THEIR OWN
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY
WITHIN MICHIGAN THE LAST ONE
BEING ZELAND WHICH WAS
ORIGINALLY FORMED IN 1982 DID
SO BY STARTING A UTILITY FROM
SCRATCH WHEN SERVICE WAS NOT
WIDESPREAD.
&gt;&gt; PERHAPS YOU CAN IMAGINE WHY
SETTING UP A FULL SET OF POLES
AND WIRES TO DIRECTLY COMPETE
WITH THE INCUMBENT UTILITY IS
AN EXPENSIVE PROPOSITION AS IS
BUYING OUT THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE
THROUGH CONCENTRATION WHICH
MEANS YOU ACQUIRE THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT IS OFTEN IN
POOR CONDITION.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT IF WE CREATED A
COMPLEMENTARY COMMUNITY OWNED
ENERGY UTILITY THAT PROVIDES
ELECTRICITY FROM LOCAL SOLAR
AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS
INSTALLED ON HOMES AND
BUSINESSES IN OUR COMMUNITY?
&gt;&gt; AND WHAT IF THAT COMMUNITY
OWNED UTILITY PROVIDED 100
HUNDRED PERCENT CLEAN,
RELIABLE, LOCALLY BUILT AND
AFFORDABLE ELECTRICITY BUILT
RIGHT HERE IN ANN ARBOR?
THIS UTILITY WOULD GIVE
RESIDENTS A CHOICE FOR WHERE
THEY PROCURE THEIR ENERGY A
CHOICE THAT WE DON&apos;T HAVE TODAY
AND THIS PARALLEL UTILITY WOULD
NOT DUPLICATE THE TRADITIONAL
GRID WITH ALL OF ITS
VULNERABILITIES BUT FOCUS ON
GENERAL CLEAN ON GENERATING
CLEAN, RELIABLE AND AFFORDABLE
POWER.
&gt;&gt; NOW AND THAT IS WHAT THE
CITY VANOVER IS LOOKING TO DO
THROUGH THE CREATION OF A
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY OR
AN EU ADDS ENVISIONED AND YOU
WOULD FOCUS FIRST ON GENERATING
LOCAL CLEAN ENERGY ENERGY THAT
WOULD FEED DIRECTLY INTO OUR
HOMES, OUR BUSINESSES, OUR
PLACES OF WORSHIP AND COMMUNITY
CENTERS AND THIS CLEAN ENERGY
WOULD BE PAIRED WITH STORAGE TO
HELP IMPROVE ENERGY RELIABILITY
AND OFFERED AND WOULD BE
OFFERED IN CONJUNCTION WITH
DEEP ENERGY WASTE REDUCTION
PROGRAMS TO HELP OUR RESIDENTS
LOWER THEIR ENERGY COSTS AND
USAGE ALL WHILE IMPROVING
COMFORT .
&gt;&gt; PRETTY COOL.
SO THE CONCEPT OF AN SEIU IS
GROUNDED IN CHOICE PROVIDING IT
OPERATES ANOTHER WAY TO PROCURE
A LARGE PORTION OF THEIR ENERGY
ONE THAT IS COMING FROM CLEAN,
LOCAL RELIABLE AND RESILIENT
SOURCES.
THE SEIU WOULD ENABLE A LOT
MORE PEOPLE TO GET THE BENEFIT
OF SOLAR BY DIRECTLY PAYING FOR
SOLAR INSTALLATION ON HOMES AND
BUSINESSES, ON ROOFS, ON
CARPORTS, GROUND MOUNTED
SYSTEMS AND RESIDENTS WOULDN&apos;T
OWN THE SOLAR SYSTEM THAT&apos;S
INSTALLED ON THE PROPERTY THE
PUBLIC WOULD OR MORE
SPECIFICALLY SAID YOU WOULD AND
RESIDENTS WOULD SUBSCRIBE TO
PURCHASE THEIR ENERGY AT A RATE
THAT IS BASED ON COSTS AND SEIU
OPERATIONAL NEEDS FROM THE
SYSTEM ON THEIR OR THEIR
NEIGHBORS ROOF.
AND IF ALL OF THOSE RESIDENTS
POWER NEEDS ARE MET, THE EXCESS
GENERATED GENERATION FROM THE
SOLAR SYSTEM ON THEIR PROPERTY
FLOWS INTO A BATTERY SYSTEM AND
THIS MEANS THAT RESIDENTS COULD
STILL HAVE POWER IF THE BIG
TRADITIONAL GRID GOES DOWN AND
THIS IS ALREADY POSSIBLE TODAY
.
&gt;&gt; ADDITIONALLY, THE SEIU WOULD
NOT BE LIMITED BY CURRENT
UTILITY RESTRICTIONS THAT
CONSTRAIN SOLAR SYSTEM SIZES
AND THE AMOUNT OF SOLAR THAT IS
ALLOWED ON THE GRID.
YOU MIGHT HAVE HEARD OF US AS
THE ONE PERCENT CAP AND IF
YOU&apos;RE NOT FAMILIAR WITH THAT,
DTG CURRENTLY RESTRICTS THE
SOLAR CAPACITY OF THE SYSTEM
THAT EACH OF US ARE ALLOWED TO
INSTALL ON OUR HOMES TO
WHATEVER OUR HISTORICAL
ELECTRICAL CONSUMPTION IS AT
EACH OF OUR HOMES.
AND THIS IS TROUBLESOME IN PART
BECAUSE IT MEANS GENERALLY
SPEAKING THAT YOU CANNOT
OVERPRODUCE ENERGY FOR YOUR
NEIGHBORS AND IT ALSO DOESN&apos;T
ALLOW FOR YOU TO ACCOUNT FOR
FUTURE ELECTRIFICATION OR
FUTURE INCREASED DEMAND IN YOUR
HOME.
&gt;&gt; SO INSTEAD YOU WOULD SEEK TO
MAXIMIZE SOLAR INSTALLATIONS,
LEVERAGE ALL VIABLE SUNNY ROOF
SPACE THAT&apos;S AVAILABLE OVER
TIME INDIVIDUAL SOLAR SYSTEMS
WOULD BE CONNECTED THROUGH A
SERIES OF MICRO GRIDS AS
OPPOSED TO GRID.
YOU COULD ALSO OFFER A SERIES
OF ROBUST ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION PROGRAMS WHICH WOULD
HELP PEOPLE LOWER THEIR ENERGY
DEMAND AND IMPROVE THEIR
COMFORT AND THESE SERVICES WILL
BE AVAILABLE TO ANYONE THAT
PARTICIPATES IN THE SIU KIND
OF LIKE THE CURRENT ENERGY
WASTE REDUCTION OFFERINGS THAT
ARE AVAILABLE THROUGH OUR
INCUMBENT UTILITY.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, WE COULD OFFER A
SLEW OF ADDITIONAL OPT IN
SERVICES THAT INDIVIDUALS CAN
USE TO IMPROVE COMFORT AND
REDUCE BILLS AND SAVE ENERGY AT
LEAST ADDITIONAL OFFERINGS CAN
BE PAID FOR THROUGH ON BILL
FINANCING AND THROUGH ON BILL
FINANCING.
THE SEIU IS ABLE TO PAY THE
UPFRONT COSTS OF IMPROVEMENTS
LIKE ENERGY EFFICIENCY OR
ELECTRIFICATION UPGRADES AND
THEN THE RESIDENTS SIMPLY PAY
BACK THE COSTS THROUGH THEIR
UTILITY BILLS.
&gt;&gt; THIS ALLOWS THE COST OF THE
IMPROVEMENTS TO STAY WITH THE
HOME AS OPPOSED TO THE RESIDENT
AND IT HELPS REDUCE THE INITIAL
UPFRONT COSTS NEEDED TO MAKE
THE IMPROVEMENTS THIS MAKES
THESE TYPES OF INVESTMENTS MUCH
MORE ACCESSIBLE TO ALL
RESIDENTS, ESPECIALLY LOW
INCOME INDIVIDUALS AND RENTERS
INDIVIDUALS WHO HISTORICALLY
EMITTED FROM MOST UTILITY
PROGRAMS AND THE ACA WILL ALSO
PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION WHICH ENSURES
THAT WE HAVE SAFER, MORE
COMFORTABLE AND CLEANER HOMES
AND BUSINESSES AND EVENTUALLY
WILL OFFER COMMUNITY SOLAR
PROGRAMS SO THAT INDIVIDUALS
WITHOUT VIABLE SOLAR ACCESS CAN
STILL REAP THE BENEFITS
OF CLEAN ENERGY.
&gt;&gt; SO I KNOW THAT A LOT TO
DIGEST.
&gt;&gt; BUT LET ME REITERATE THE
CORE OF AN SEIU AND SEIU IS
COMMUNITY OWNED.
IT&apos;S A COMMUNITY UTILITY THAT
FOCUSES ON GENERATING LOCAL
CLEAN RELIABLE ENERGY AND FAST
.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ABOUT LEVERAGING
EXISTING TECHNOLOGIES AND
PRACTICES SUCH AS SOLAR AND
STORAGE TO REDUCE EMISSIONS
QUICKLY WHILE IMPROVING
RELIABILITY.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ABOUT ENSURING THAT ALL
IN ARBITRATES HAVE ACCESS TO
SOLUTION AND TO IMPROVE
COMFORT , REDUCE BILLS AND REAP
THE BENEFITS OF THE CLEAN
ENERGY ECONOMY SO THAT SEIU AS
I MENTIONED BEFORE IS ABOUT
GENERATING LOCALLY OWNED
RELIABLE, CLEAN AND AFFORDABLE
ENERGY AND BECAUSE WE ARE
GENERATING LOCALLY WE DON&apos;T
NEED A LARGE AND VULNERABLE
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK.
&gt;&gt; THIS ALSO MEANS THAT WE
DON&apos;T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
BUYING A LOT OF POLES AND WIRES
OR WORRYING ABOUT EXTREME
WEATHER EVENTS THAT CAN KNOCK
OUT THE LIPSKI THAT COULD OR
COULD KNOCK OUT THE POWER
SUPPLY.
&gt;&gt; INSTEAD WE FOCUS ON
GENERATING CLEAN, RELIABLE
LOCAL ENERGY FAST AND REDUCING
CLIMATE POLLUTION RAPIDLY.
&gt;&gt; SO TO CLOSE OUT I WOULD LIKE
TO SHARE JUST A FEW EXAMPLES
OF HOW THAT COULD WORK AND THIS
ISN&apos;T MEANT TO BE AN ALL
INCLUSIVE LIST OF EXAMPLES BUT
I JUST WANT TO ILLUSTRATE HOW
SOME OF THE CONCEPTS I&apos;VE
DISCUSSED HERE COULD WORK IN
PRACTICE.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S START WITH THE EXAMPLE
OF A HOMEOWNER OR A BUSINESS
OWNER WHO HAS GOOD SOLAR
POTENTIAL BUT DOESN&apos;T HAVE THE
CAPITAL OR THE ABILITY TO
INSTALL SOLAR ON THEIR ROOF BY
THEMSELVES IN THIS CASE THE
INDIVIDUAL WOULD SUBSCRIBE OR
ENROLL TO THE SBA AS A
SUPPLEMENT ONLY UNTIL THEY NEED
TO DTT
THAT YOU WOULD WORK WITH
THAT HOMEOWNER TO CONDUCT A
NEEDS ASSESSMENT WHICH IS A
PROCESS OF IDENTIFYING
POTENTIAL ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION AND ELECTRIFICATION
OPPORTUNITIES AT HOME OR AT
THAT BUSINESS AND THEN THE
SELECTED OPPORTUNITIES WOULD BE
IMPLEMENTED AND THE HOMEOWNER
WOULD HAVE THE OPTION
OF FINANCING THOSE THROUGH THE
S TO USE FINANCE PROGRAM.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S YOU MS.
WOULD ALWAYS AIM TO CREATE A
FINANCING PACKAGE WHERE THE
ELECTRIC BILL THAT THAT TENANT
THE HOMEOWNER IS PAYING IS THE
SAME OR IDEALLY LESS THAN WHAT
IS CURRENTLY PAID AND AND WHAT
THOSE ARE PAID OFF.
THE RESIDENT REAPS THE FULL
BENEFIT OF THE IMPROVEMENTS AT
THE SAME TIME AS IDENTIFYING
THE MAXIMUM POTENTIAL YOU
INSTALL SOLAR ON THEIR ROOF AND
THE RESIDENT PAYS THEIR ENERGY
BILL AS THEY ALWAYS HAVE PAYING
PER KILOWATT HOUR OF USAGE
GENERATED FROM THE ONSITE SOLAR
SYSTEM.
ANY ADDITIONAL POWER THAT THEY
DRAW FROM DUTY IS PAID DIRECTLY
TO DTV AND SO IN THIS SCENARIO
THE RESIDENT WOULD HAVE TWO
BILLS THE ONE FOR THE SIU BILL
FOR THE ENERGY USE FROM THE
ONSITE SOLAR AND THEN TO DTG
FOR THE POWER THAT THEY DRAW
FROM THE GRID IN ANOTHER
EXAMPLE WILL LOOK AT A RESIDENT
OR A BUSINESS WHO IS INTERESTED
IN ENERGY WASTE REDUCTION AND
BENEFICIAL ELECTRIFICATION BUT
THEY CAN&apos;T INSTALL SOLAR FOR A
NUMBER OF REASONS.
&gt;&gt; MAYBE THEY HAVE BIG
BEAUTIFUL TREE THAT BLOCKS
THEIR SOLAR ACCESS AND IN THIS
CASE THE INDIVIDUAL WOULD
RECEIVE THAT ONSITE ASSESSMENT
TO IDENTIFY THEIR ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION AND BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION OPPORTUNITIES
JUST LIKE IN THE PREVIOUS
EXAMPLE.
&gt;&gt; AND THEN THE INDIVIDUAL
WOULD CHOOSE WHICH OPTIONS TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH AND THEY
WOULD HAVE THE OPTION TO PAY
FOR THEM THROUGH THE ON BILL
FINANCING MECHANISM.
THE INDIVIDUAL COULD ALSO
REGISTER TO JOIN A MICRO OR
NANO GRID WHICH MEANS THEY
WOULD BE SHARING POWER WITH THE
RESIDENTS THAT HAVE BETTER
SOLAR POTENTIAL ONCE A CRITICAL
NUMBER OF NEIGHBORS SIGN UP FOR
THE CEO, THIS INDIVIDUAL WOULD
RECEIVE TWO ENERGY BILLS JUST
LIKE THE LAST ONE ONE FOR THE
PORTION THAT WAS FINANCE FOUR
THROUGH THE ANNUAL FINANCING
THE PORTION OF THE IMPROVEMENTS
AND THEN ONE FOR THERE THE
ENERGY THAT THEY PULL FROM A
THIRD EXAMPLE IS A RESIDENT WHO
ALREADY HAS SOLAR ON THEIR HOME
OR BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; WE KNOW THAT WITH SOLAR AS
IT HAS BEEN VERY SUCCESSFUL AND
THERE ARE ALREADY A LOT
OF RESIDENTS WHO HAVE THIS AND
IN THESE CASES THOSE RESIDENTS
COULD STILL TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF ALL OF THE ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION IN BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION SUPPORT OFFERED
THROUGH THE DSU AND THEY CAN
STILL LEVERAGE THAT ON BILL
FINANCING TO PAY FOR THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS.
&gt;&gt; BUT IN ADDITION TO THAT THEY
COULD ALSO ENROLL FOR AN SMU
BATTERY IF THEY DON&apos;T ALREADY
HAVE BATTERY STORAGE IS A HUGE
PART OF THE SIU IN ADDITION TO
THE SOLAR GENERATION.
SO THIS RESIDENT CAN STILL
ENROLL IN YES YOU EVEN THERE
EVEN THOUGH THEY HAVE THEIR OWN
SOLAR AND THEN THEY CAN SELL
THEIR EXCESS POWER TO THE DSU
THAT WAY IT CAN BE DISTRIBUTED
THROUGH THE LOCAL MICRO OR NANO
GRIDS WHICH JUST MEANS SHARING
IT WITH THEIR NEIGHBORS AND
THEIR RATES FOR BEING SOLD TO
THE YOU STILL NEED TO BE
DETERMINED BUT THE INTENT IS TO
GET AS CLOSE TO NET METERING AS
POSSIBLE AND SO THAT RESIDENTS
WHO ALREADY HAVE SOLAR WOULD BE
HELPING TO PROVIDE THE POWER TO
THE EU AND THEIR NEIGHBORS.
&gt;&gt; OK, JUST A COUPLE MORE
EXAMPLES FOR EXAMPLE IS FOR A
MULTI FAMILY RENTAL IN THIS
CASE THE SIU WOULD WORK CLOSELY
WITH LANDLORDS AND PROPERTY
OWNERS AS WELL AS TENANTS TO
CUSTOMIZE SOLUTIONS, MEET
INDIVIDUAL NEEDS RENTAL UNITS
RLJ FOR ALL OFFERINGS.
SO ALL OF THE ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION, SOLAR AND STORAGE
INSTALLATION BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION AND AND AS WELL
AS BEING TIED TO THE LOCAL
MICROGRID SO THE CITIES WORK ON
GREENLEES IS PAIRED WITH THE ON
BILL FINANCING OFFER THROUGH
THE SIU HELP ENSURE THE COST
OF THE IMPROVEMENTS STAY WITH
THE BUILDING AND ALLOWS THE
COST OF THOSE IMPROVEMENTS TO
BE SPREAD OVER LONGER PERIODS
OF TIME AND DOESN&apos;T BURDEN A
SINGLE TENANT WITH THE COST
THAT WE WANT TO MAKE TO THEIR
RENTAL UNIT AT WHICH OFFERS THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR IMMEDIATE
HEALTH, SAFETY AND
COMFORT IMPROVEMENTS AND AND
ACCESS TO GETTING US
IMPROVEMENTS AT REASONABLE
COSTS.
&gt;&gt; SO THE LAST EXAMPLE IS
OF COMMUNITY SOLAR SO IN SOME
CASES INDIVIDUALS WON&apos;T HAVE
ACCESS TO ONSITE RENEWABLE
ENERGY GENERATION BECAUSE
THEY&apos;VE GOT A BIG BEAUTIFUL
TREE OR SOMETHING ALONG THOSE
LINES AND IN THESE CASES OFF
SITE SOLAR WILL BE INSTALLED IN
COMMON AREAS LIKE PARKING LOTS
OR SCHOOL ROOFTOPS OR PARKS OR
OTHER SHARED PLACES.
AND SO IF FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO
CAN&apos;T GET ON SITE STOLE SOLAR,
THEY CAN SUBSCRIBE TO TAKE A
PORTION OF THIS SHARED ENERGY
TO HELP POWER THEIR THEIR
LIVES, THEIR BUSINESSES AND IN
THIS WAY ANYONE IN THE
COMMUNITY CAN PARTICIPATE IN
AND TO YOU EVEN IF THEY DON&apos;T
OWN THEIR OWN HOME OR THEY
DON&apos;T HAVE VIABLE SOLAR
POTENTIAL ON THEIR ON THEIR
PROPERTY AND JUST LIKE JUST
LIKE IN THE OTHER CASES THE
INDIVIDUALS THAT SUBSCRIBE TO
THE COMMUNITY SOLAR OFFERING
WOULD PAY PER KILOWATT HOUR
OF WHATEVER ENERGY THEY USE
DIRECTLY TO THE CEO AND THEN
FOR ANYTHING THEY NEED BEYOND
THAT THEY WOULD PAY FOR THE
POWER THAT THEY DRAW FROM THAT
GRID.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THOSE ARE JUST A FEW
EXAMPLES OF HOW YOU COULD WORK
THERE NOT COMPREHENSIVE BUT IT
KIND OF GIVES YOU AN IDEA.
&gt;&gt; I DO INVITE YOU TO LEARN
MORE.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THAT I THREW A LOT AT
YOU.
I WHAT KIND OF CLICK BECAUSE I
KNOW THAT IT&apos;S LATE BUT INVITE
YOU TO CHECK OUT THE WEBSITE TO
GOVERN OR A TWO SEIU AND IF YOU
ARE INTERESTED IN SEEING EITHER
ANY OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS OR ANYBODY
WATCHING RIGHT NOW IF YOU&apos;RE
INTERESTED IN SEEING THE CITY
MOVE FORWARD WITH YOU, WE ASK
THAT YOU JUST TAKE A MOMENT TO
REGISTER YOUR INTEREST.
THERE&apos;S A SHORT FIVE QUESTIONS
SURVEY.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S AT THIS SECOND BULLET
POINT BUT YOU IT&apos;S AT THE TOP
OF THE SIU WEBSITE.
IT&apos;S EASIER TO FIND IT THAT
WAY.
I THINK IT TAKES MOST PEOPLE
ABOUT SIXTY SECONDS TO TO TAKE
THIS SURVEY AND SO WE INVITE
YOU TO CHECK THAT OUT.
YOU CAN SEND US ANY QUESTIONS
TO SUSTAINABILITY.
THEY TOOK UP THAT ORG AND I
WANT TO THANK YOU FOR LETTING
ME SHARE A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
SIU.
I KNOW THAT THERE HAS BEEN A
LOT OF MURMURINGS ABOUT THIS.
WE DID MAKE IT PUBLIC RECENTLY.
IT WAS SOMETHING THAT WENT
BEFORE COUNCIL A LITTLE WHILE
BACK SO SOME PEOPLE KNOW WHAT
IT IS BUT I THANK YOU FOR
LETTING ME TAKE THE TIME TO
SHARE WITH YOU SOME OF THE
DETAILS ABOUT IT AND I&apos;D BE
HAPPY TO TAKE YOUR QUESTIONS IF
YOU HAVE THEM.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR MISS DER
WILESMITH COMMISSIONER LI,
THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S AWESOME.
THAT&apos;S WHY I&apos;M VERY EXCITED TO
SEE HOW FAR THIS IS.
&gt;&gt; ALSO DO YOU GET A HAIRCUT
NOW?
&gt;&gt; IT LOOKS GOOD MAYBE SINCE
LAST WEEK.
YEAH MAYBE YOU DID ABOUT QUITE
A FEW I THINK THIS IS AWESOME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE
PRESENTATION.
A FEW THINGS I WANT US TO KIND
OF LIKE THINK ABOUT THE
FINANCING OF THE UPFRONT COST
AND ADVOCACY OF ADDITIONAL
FEDERAL AND STATE LEVEL FUNDING
.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE AN UNDERSTANDING
OF HOW THAT&apos;S EXACTLY GOING TO
BE FINANCED?
SO IT WOULD BE THROUGH CITY
FUNDS AND SO THAT DETERMINES OR
DEPENDS ON HOW MUCH FINANCING
WE ARE ABLE TO GET OUR HANDS ON
AT FIRST AND THAT IS SIMPLY UP
TO A COUNCIL VOTE.
CITY COUNCIL CAN DECIDE HOW
MUCH THEY WANT TO MAKE
AVAILABLE TO THIS OF THE
CLIMATE VILLAGE THAT&apos;S GOING
BEFORE THE PUBLIC THIS FALL
BEFORE THE PUBLIC IS PASSED.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE CERTAINLY FUNDS
THAT COULD COME FROM THAT.
WE ARE AGGRESSIVELY PURSUING
OTHER FINANCIAL OPTIONS AND IT
JUST KIND OF DEPENDS ON SCALE
HOW MUCH WE WANT TO START WITH
GOCHA, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER THING THAT I
WANTED TO KIND OF THINK ABOUT
WAS MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
OF THE PANELS.
LET&apos;S SAY THAT SOMEBODY IS
LICENSING THIS LIKE ON A ROOF
YOU DON&apos;T NECESSARILY OWN THE
SOLAR PANEL BUT THEY&apos;LL HAVE TO
AGREE TO SOME KIND OF AN ACCESS
AGREEMENT.
SO DO WE HAVE HAS HIS THOUGHT
BEEN GIVEN TO KIND OF THE LEVEL
OF INFRASTRUCTURE THAT YOU&apos;LL
NEED TO AND BY INFRASTRUCTURE
YOU MEAN LIKE THE PEOPLE THAT
YOU&apos;LL NEED TO, YOU KNOW, KIND
OF GO AND REPAIR THINGS,
REPLACEMENT SCHEDULES AND
THINGS LIKE THAT?
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT I DON&apos;T KNOW
IF THAT&apos;S, YOU KNOW, BEEN
REALLY DEVELOPED I GUESS UNTIL
DEMAND IS KIND OF I GUESS
SOLIDIFIED.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT THAT&apos;S A GOOD
QUESTION.
WE ARE ACTUALLY WORKING ON A
FEASIBILITY STUDY RIGHT NOW TO
DETERMINE TO BE ABLE TO ANSWER
TO THE QUESTIONS LIKE THAT WHAT
KIND OF STAFFING WE WOULD
REQUIRE AT
I DON&apos;T KNOW WERE
YOU ASKING ABOUT EASEMENTS AND
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THAT SENSE AT
ALL?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I GUESS BOTH PROLOGIS
DOES A SOLAR PANEL LICENSE
AGREEMENT WHERE THEY
EFFECTIVELY RENT THEIR ROOF
SPACE FOR SOLAR PANELS.
&gt;&gt; SO THE QUESTION WOULD BE
REALLY LIKE FROM A A LEASE
POSITION AND CONTRACTUAL RIGHT
OBLIGATIONS CREATED BETWEEN A
LANDLORD AND SO THAT&apos;S SOMEBODY
THAT&apos;S LOOKING TO INSTALL THIS
RELATIVE TO LIKE HOW LONG DOES
THE PROGRAM NEED TO BE IF YOU
WERE TO GO INTO THIS?
I THINK PROLOGIS IS ACTUALLY
WOULD BE A GOOD PERSON TO LOOK
AT AS FAR AS RENTING ROOF
RIGHTS ESSENTIALLY.
&gt;&gt; SO I WOULD JUST LIKE MY MY
QUESTION I HAD JUST WENT
IMMEDIATELY TO WHAT KIND
OF CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS BETWEEN
THE PARTIES AND HOW MUCH WHO&apos;S
THE MAINTENANCE ON LIKE IF YOU
DO END UP GOING THIS DIRECTION.
&gt;&gt; GREAT QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; SO WITH THE IN TERMS OF LIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE EASEMENTS, IF
THE ISSUE IS PASSED BY COUNCIL
BY SIMPLE VOTE THEN IT BECOMES
AN OFFICIAL UTILITY AND
THEREFORE WE WOULD HAVE ACCESS
TO ALL THE SAME UTILITY
EASEMENTS THAT ARE ALREADY IN
PLACE WHEN IT COMES TO
MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEMS THAT
ARE THERE.
THE CITY WOULD BE RESPONSIBLE
FOR THOSE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO ADD THAT BECAUSE
THIS SIU IS NOT PROPOSING ANY
LARGE SCALE DISTRIBUTION SO
THERE AREN&apos;T ANY POLES AND
WIRES.
IT MEANS THAT MAINTENANCE IS
ACTUALLY PRETTY MINIMAL.
SOLAR PANELS ARE GENERALLY
FAIRLY LOW MAINTENANCE AND
BATTERY STORAGE BUT THE CITY
WOULD YES BE RESPONSIVE STAFF
ON HAND TO SUPPORT ANY
MAINTENANCE NEEDS OF THOSE
GOCHA OVERALL.
THANK YOU.
OVERALL I&apos;M SUPER EXCITED TO
SEE HOW FAR THIS HAS COME.
LET ME KNOW HOW I CAN HELP.
I HAVE A LAUNDRY LIST
OF QUESTIONS THAT I WON&apos;T BORE
EVERYONE ELSE WITH RIGHT NOW.
THE THING THAT I ASK SOME
OF THE ARCHITECTS AND DESIGN
MINDED FOLKS TO THINK ABOUT IS
HOW CAN YOU INTEGRATE SOLAR
PANELS TO MAKE THEM LOOK
BEAUTIFUL BUILDINGS?
AND SO THAT&apos;S SOMETHING I&apos;D
LOVE TO GRAPPLE WITH.
YOU KNOW, HOW DO YOU MAKE IT
DESIRABLE?
RIGHT.
AND THEN REALLY KIND
OF INTEGRATE IT INTO THE
OVERALL DESIGN.
&gt;&gt; SO JUST AWESOME PROGRESS.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE HOW WE CAN
HELP, YOU KNOW, DEVELOP IT
FURTHER.
I&apos;LL SEND YOU A LIST
OF QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YES, PLEASE DO.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OTHER PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
HAVE QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
GIVE BRANDELL CAN YOU EXPLAIN
MORE SPECIFICALLY WHAT ON BILL
FINANCING REALLY MEANS?
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
UNBUILD FINANCING IS A
MECHANISM BY WHICH YOU CAN IT&apos;S
GET FUNDING TO PAY FOR ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS.
SO LET&apos;S SAY MY HOUSE IS REALLY
DRAFTY AND I KNOW THAT I NEED
SOME AIR CEILING AND I NEED
SOME ATTIC INSULATION AND AS
WELL I CAN CONTACT THE SEIU,
THE SEIU WOULD VISIT MY HOUSE
AND THEY WOULD DO AN ASSESSMENT
AND VERIFY WHAT IT IS THAT I
NEED AND THEY WILL FRONT ME THE
MONEY TO BE ABLE TO PAY FOR
THESE UPGRADES AND SO I GET I
CAN GET IT TO AIRCELL INSULATE
MY HOUSE AND BECAUSE THESE ARE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS
,THE CEO WILL PAY FOR THAT.
&gt;&gt; THEN WHAT HAPPENS IS THAT I
PAY THAT BACK BY ADDING A
LITTLE BIT OF MONEY TO MY
MONTHLY ENERGY BILL SO IN
ADDITION TO WHAT I&apos;M PAYING FOR
MY ENERGY, I&apos;M ON A LITTLE BIT
EXTRA BUT BECAUSE IT&apos;S DONE
THROUGH MY ENERGY BILL AND AS A
UTILITY THE SIU WOULD WORK WITH
ME TO FIGURE OUT WHAT THAT BEST
THAT THAT WHAT WOULD MAKE THE
MOST SENSE IN TERMS OF HOW MUCH
COST I SHOULD EXPECT FOR DOING
THAT THOSE UPGRADES AND THEN
HOW MUCH THAT WOULD AFFECT MY
BILL.
&gt;&gt; AND SO WE&apos;LL FIND THAT SWEET
SPOT FOR FOR WHAT I CAN AFFORD
AND AND IT ALLOWS IT TO GO OUT
LONG.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S LIKE A NO INTEREST
LOAN GUY.
OK, THANK YOU.
SUPEROXIDE IT&apos;S GREAT TO HEAR
ABOUT THIS OTHER QUESTIONS WE
SPENT A LOT OF TIME WITH YOU
LAST WEEK AND THIS ONLY CAME UP
IN PASSING SO MY IS THERE
ANYTHING THE NEXT THE NEXT ITEM
ON OUR AGENDA HERE THIS EVENING
YET IS TO TALK ABOUT OUR WORK
PLAN FOR THE NEXT COUPLE
OF YEARS.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYTHING THAT YOU
THAT IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO
THIS THAT WE SHOULD BE
CONSIDERING WHO?
&gt;&gt; GREAT QUESTION.
I THINK AS WE SEE DIRECTLY
RELATED TO ASOU, I THINK THAT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
ALREADY DOING A REALLY GREAT
JOB OF ASKING THE QUESTIONS
THAT HELP PETITIONERS THINK
ABOUT THE WAY THEY ARE
INCORPORATING SUSTAINABILITY
INTO THEIR PROJECTS.
CONTINUING TO DO THAT IS GOING
TO BE REALLY BENEFICIAL FOR THE
SIU.
&gt;&gt; THE THE MORE THAT WE CAN
BUILD OUR NEW CONSTRUCTION AND
RETROFIT PROJECTS CORRECTLY AND
REALLY INCORPORATE AS MUCH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN THE
PROCESS AT THE GET GO REDUCES
THE COST BURDEN ON BOTH THE CEO
AND RESIDENTS IN THE LONG RUN.
SO I THINK THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS REALLY DOING A
GOOD JOB OF THAT.
I I DON&apos;T BELIEVE I WOULD I
WOULD SAY MY MY NATURAL MY
INSTINCT TO ENCOURAGING MORE
SOLAR BUT THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT EVEN WHETHER OR NOT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DOES THAT
IF THE SIU PASSES THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT YOU CAN PURSUE
ON ITS OWN THROUGH ITS OWN
MEANS.
SO I WOULD JUST SAY KEEP UP THE
GOOD WORK AND I&apos;LL JUST
ENCOURAGING AS MUCH SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT AS POSSIBLE.
GREAT.
AND THE COMMENT THAT I WOULD
GIVE IT ALONG WITH THAT IS THAT
I WAS GOING THROUGH MY MIND
ABOUT WHAT HOW I WOULD
TRANSLATE THIS AND THE ONLY
THING THAT I THINK OF IS
ADDITIONAL LIKE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR SOLAR AND SO FRONT YARD
SOLAR MIGHT COME UP IN THE
WORKPLACE DISCUSSION ANYTHING
ELSE GO COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; SO BY THE FRONT YOUR SOLAR
WAS GOING TO WHAT ARE MY
COMMENTS TO LOOK AT?
&gt;&gt; I MEAN THIS REALLY DOES
RAISE KIND OF A LOT OF LAND USE
QUESTIONS ABOUT I THINK WE&apos;VE
ADDRESSED IT A BIT IN BUILDING
RIGHT FRONT YARD SOLAR.
BUT I THINK THERE ARE A LOT
OF CONDITIONS WHERE WE CAN
PROBABLY IMPROVE OUR LAND USE
STRATEGIES TO LAYER THIS IN.
&gt;&gt; BUT WE DON&apos;T WANT TO DO IS
INCENTIVIZE LOSING TREES TO
REDUCING SHADE TO GAIN SOLAR AS
WELL.
SO I&apos;M NOT REALLY SURE LIKE ALL
THE CURSORY REVIEW THROUGH OUR
UDC TO MAKE SURE WE&apos;RE
BALANCING THAT.
BUT THERE IS KIND OF WHERE WE
MIGHT WILL GIVE VARIANCES.
WHAT OF MY THIS BALANCING ACT
OF OVER IMPROVING BUILDING
STOCK THAT MIGHT HAVE
OPPORTUNITY FOR HIGHER DENSITY
AND EXACTLY WHAT THAT SWEET
SPOT MIGHT BE.
WE UNDERSTAND THE EMBODIED
ENERGY AND VALUE OF EXISTING
BUILDINGS BEING RENOVATED BUT
SOME OF THEM ARE KIND OF BEYOND
THEIR YEARS AND VERY LEAKY AND
ALL OF THOSE THINGS AND SO EVEN
A STUDY OF YOU KNOW, WHEN WE
SHOULD BE IMPROVING AND ADDING
TO THAT SORT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
VERSUS WHEN WE SHOULD SAY
OPPORTUNITIES OF EIGHT STAR
UNIT UNITS DOWNTOWN IS ADDING
DENSITY WITH SOLAR ON TOP.
SO I THINK FOR US IF THERE&apos;S
ANY ADDITIONAL INSIGHTS INTO
THAT SORT OF LAND USE STRATEGY
PLANNING WE CAN DO WOULD BE
REALLY, REALLY HELPFUL.
THE ONLY OTHER COMMENT I ALSO
HAVE IS MY UNDERSTANDING
ESPECIALLY IN KIND OF SINGLE
FAMILY FINANCING IS IF THERE IS
PRIVATE SOLAR AND IT&apos;S FINANCED
SEPARATELY PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
HAVING ISSUES REFINANCING SO
ANY CONVERSATION INS WITH
BANKING AROUND MORTGAGE AND
REFINANCING LIABILITIES
OF BEING ABLE TO REFINANCE OR
SELL YOUR HOUSE WHEN
SOMETHING&apos;S ON THERE?
I&apos;VE SEEN THOSE CONDITIONS
BEFORE SO THAT SORT OF BANKING
ISSUE MIGHT COME UP IN FIGURING
LOCAL BANKS MIGHT BE MORE IN
TUNE TO HOW THIS STRUCTURE
MIGHT WORK AND BE WILLING TO
WORK WITH HOMEOWNERS TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEY DON&apos;T KIND
OF GET STUCK IN A CERTAIN
FINANCING STRUCTURE.
SO I&apos;VE UNDERSTOOD THAT TO
HAPPEN.
SO IF THAT&apos;S NOT ON YOUR RADAR
YET, I&apos;D RECOMMEND THAT WE
IT&apos;LL GET TO OTHER QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS SORRY MY DUCKBILL
MICROPHONE TO.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
STICKING AROUND WITH US AND
JOINING US TWO WEEKS IN A ROW
AND WHILE WE DON&apos;T EXPECT YOU
TO COME BACK NEXT WEEK OR THE
WEEK AFTER, PLEASE I I THINK
REGULAR COMMUNICATION BETWEEN
YOUR OFFICE AND WHAT WE&apos;RE UP
TO IS REALLY USEFUL FOR US.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING ME
.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT IS DISCUSSION OF OUR WORK
PLAN.
BUT BEFORE WE DO THAT I NEED TO
STRETCH MY LEGS OR GET A QUICK
DRINK.
SO LIKE A FIVE MINUTE RECESS IS
THAT OK?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL COME BACK AT QUARTER
TO TEN
THAT SORRY IN CASE IT
NEEDED TO BE PICKED UP BY THE
MICROPHONE.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE BACK AND WE ARE NOW
TALKING ABOUT ITEM NINE A WHICH
IS THE TWENTY TWENTY TWO AND
TWENTY TWENTY THREE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION WORKPLAN
AND STAFF WORKPLAN PLANNING
COMMISSION AND STAFF.
&gt;&gt; MR. LEONARD ARE YOU LEADING
US?
&gt;&gt; I AM SO AS OUTLINED I&apos;LL
WALK YOU THROUGH A COUPLE
OF PIECES OF THIS INFORMATION
THAT WAS PROVIDED.
FIRST OF ALL YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
SEE THIS QUITE A BIT.
I WANTED TO PRESENT A THIS
VERSION TO YOU WELL IN ADVANCE
AS WE ALREADY DISCUSSED AT OUR
NEXT MEETING WE WILL BE HOLDING
THE ANNUAL PUBLIC HEARING FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO CONSIDER
UPDATES TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN YOUR DELIBERATION AND THAT
FEEDBACK COULD INFLUENCE THE
WORK THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WANTS TO DO.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M PROPOSING THAT JUST
SORT OF KEEP THIS FRONT AND
CENTER ON YOUR AGENDA AND AS
I&apos;VE DESCRIBED HERE SO THIS
EVENING IS SORT OF AN EARLY
OPPORTUNITY.
WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE ALREADY STARTED
SOME DISCUSSION ON IT AND I&apos;VE
DONE SOMEWHAT OF A BALANCE
OF TRYING TO DECIPHER SOME
OF THE PREVIOUS CONVERSATION
THAT WE HAD INTO THIS
PRELIMINARY DRAFT.
SO TONIGHT HAPPY TO TAKE ANY
EARLY FEEDBACK, SUGGESTIONS,
QUESTIONS NOT ASKING FOR ANY
ACTION ON IT BUT JUST THE GOAL
IS TO START MOVING US TOWARDS A
MORE REFINED AND ADAPTABLE WORK
PROGRAM.
THE SECOND PIECE IS A SERIES
OF RESOURCES THAT COMMISSIONER
WHITE HAS PROVIDED.
I WOULD LET HIM ADDRESS THAT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK SOME OF THESE WERE
IN RESPONSE TO MY PROPOSAL TO
NO LONGER PURSUE THE RACE
OF THE RESIDENTIAL ZONING AND
EQUITY COMMITTEE.
MANY OF THEM ARE RELATED TO
THAT.
SOME ARE RELATED I THINK TO
MORE SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS
OF MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING AND
PARKING REQUIREMENTS SHARE
THOSE RESOURCES AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; THEN YOU HAVE THE LAST
ADOPTED WORK PLAN WHICH I WILL
JUST AGAIN PUT A PLUG INTO GOOD
WORK.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF CHECK MARKS ON
THOSE ITEMS THERE AND IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF PAGES IS THE
PROPOSED WORK PROGRAM NOT YET
INCORPORATING THE I DON&apos;T KNOW
HOW ELSE TO DESCRIBE IT BUT THE
RIGHT HAND COLUMNS THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSED
THAT WE CAN INCORPORATE WHICH
ONE OF THESE TENDS TO ADVANCE
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS WHICH
TENDS TO ADVANCE AFFORDABILITY
GOALS WHICH TEND TO ADVANCE
NATURAL RESOURCES GOALS
PROBABLY SOME MORE CONVERSATION
WORRIED ABOUT WHAT THOSE
CATEGORIES ARE THAT WE WANT TO
TRACK THE INTER THE
RELATIONSHIP OF THESE ITEMS TO
THOSE CATEGORIES THE AND THEN I
WON&apos;T HIGHLIGHT THAT OTHER THAN
I&apos;VE TRIED TO YOUR WISH LIST IS
OFTEN AND BIG AND SO I&apos;VE
ATTEMPTED TO TRY AND START
BREAKING IT INTO A ANNUAL WORK
PLAN KIND OF APPROACH TO START
THINKING ABOUT HOW WHAT SORT
OF TIME HORIZON WE PROGRAM
DIFFERENT ITEMS AND I WILL
POINT OUT THAT I ALWAYS I AS WE
REFERENCE ZACH AND I HAVE SOME
MORE WORK TO DO OUT OF OUR
CONVERSATION AT THE WORKING
SESSION REGARDING
SUSTAINABILITY.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE PUT THAT IN HERE AS
HALF OF PLACE MARK CALLING IT
ELECTRIFICATION NET ZERO
BUILDINGS AND HALF OF A SHOT
ACROSS THE BOW THAT I MIGHT
START OUR FRAMEWORK AROUND
INCORPORATING THE
SUSTAINABILITY PROVISIONS IN
THAT SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
SO WITH THAT I&apos;LL STOP AGAIN
NOT ASKING FOR APPROVAL, ASKING
FOR ANY FEEDBACK, SUGGESTIONS
OR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THAT
I CAN START PROVIDING SO THAT
AS WE NEAR THE END OF NEXT
MONTH YOU WILL FEEL IN A
POSITION TO ADOPT THE WORK
PROGRAM.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
DOES ANYONE WANT TO KICK
THERE&apos;S NO THERE&apos;S NOT A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR US SO WE COULD DO
GO DIRECTLY TO THIS.
&gt;&gt; ANYBODY WANT TO KICK OFF
REACTIONS QUESTIONS,
SUGGESTIONS?
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
&gt;&gt; WE DO THINGS FASTER.
DO THEY GET BUMPED UP LIKE YOU
KNOW IF ONE TCW ONE REZONING IS
DONE, CAN WE START FOR STADIUM?
CAN WE START FOR WASHTENAW?
DO WE HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL TWENTY
TWENTY THREE OR DOES THAT
DEPEND ON WHAT OTHER THINGS
STAFF IS WORKING ON.
&gt;&gt; YES.
GOT IT.
SO ALL POSSIBLE BUT I GUESS
THIS IS A REALITY THAT WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO BE REALISTIC AND
TIMING PART OF THIS IS ME
TRYING TO SET SOME EXPECTATIONS
OF WHAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO
ACCOMPLISH AND WHAT WE WILL
HAVE TO KICK OFF LIKE THE ONE
THING I CAN TELL YOU IS I CAN&apos;T
DO ALL THAT.
&gt;&gt; WE WON&apos;T BE ABLE TO DO ALL
THIS IN A YEAR AND I THINK I I
THINK I HAVE AT TIMES STRUGGLED
WITH THIS GROUP AND TRYING TO
FIND THAT BALANCE OF WE CAN DO
FIVE ORDINANCES A YEAR OR WE
CAN DO TEN ORDINANCES A YEAR.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE BEEN RELUCTANT TO SET
THAT GOAL BECAUSE THE ONES
SOMETIMES I THINK THAT ARE
GOING TO BE EASY AREN&apos;T AND THE
ONES THAT I SOMETIMES THINGS
THAT ARE GOING TO BE DIFFICULT
AREN&apos;T.
BUT THIS IS MY STARTING POINT
THAT MY INITIAL REACTION TO
THAT WOULD BE NO.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT, IF WE GET
THAT DONE THEN THAT PUTS US IN
A GOOD POSITION TO STAY ON
TRACK AND THEN TO KICK OFF THE
FOLLOWING THE FOLLOWING YEAR.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST KNOW THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF EXCITEMENT ENERGY AROUND
THIS ONE IN PARTICULAR IN THE
COMMUNITY.
SO THAT&apos;S WHY I LIKE YOU KNOW,
EXTENDING THE SALARY TO TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR.
&gt;&gt; I GIVE YOU A LITTLE BIT
HEARTBURN BUT I GET IT I THINK
THIS LOOKS GOOD SO THANK YOU.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
SO THEY CHATTED TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YOU TALKED ABOUT THE EXTRA
COLUMNS FOR SUSTAINABILITY.
&gt;&gt; ARE THOSE GOING TO HIGHLIGHT
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
DOCUMENT ELEMENTS?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;D BE GREAT
SUSTAINABILITY.
FOR EXAMPLE, AS WE&apos;VE TALKED
ABOUT OUR PLANS ARE PRETTY HIGH
LEVEL IN THAT REGARD.
&gt;&gt; BUT YES, I THINK THAT&apos;S
POSSIBLE.
SO I THINK THE QUESTION IS AND
WE DISCUSSED BEFORE RATHER THAN
IT BEING A SUSTAINABILITY
COLUMN WITH A CHECKMARK, IT&apos;S A
SUSTAINABILITY COLUMN THAT SAYS
THE 2013 SUSTAINABILITY
FRAMEWORK ENCOURAGES THE
ADVANCEMENT OF MORE RENEWABLE
ENERGY.
YEAH, YEAH.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S PROBABLY A VERY DEEP
DOVE AND PART OF THE CONFERENCE
PLAN LIKE TO DO ALL OF THAT
WORK.
BUT AS MUCH AS WE COULD EVEN
CALL WHAT ELEMENTS FIND SOME
OF THAT RESOURCING THEN I THINK
I COULD DO A LOT TO OVERLAP
THOSE TWO DISCUSSIONS THAT ARE
COMING TO THE TABLE AND MY
GREAT CO COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S
GO AHEAD.
UM, I&apos;M WONDERING IF THERE&apos;S
ANY WAY TO GET PARKING MAXIMUMS
ON THE TWENTY TWENTY TWO AGENDA
AND OR EVEN THE BEGINNING
OF THAT AND MAYBE WHAT WOULD
HELP ME UNDERSTAND THAT IS JUST
TO REVIEW THE THINGS THAT ARE
ALREADY ON THE TWENTY TWENTY
TWO SO FOR INSTANCE THE FIRST
LINE PARKING REGULATIONS
THERE&apos;S WE WE WE HAVE COMPLETED
THAT ONE RIGHT AS COMMISSION
EXCEPT FOR I&apos;M BRINGING THAT
BACK THAT I NOTICED DURING MY
REPORT THAT THAT&apos;S COMING BACK
ON THE SEVENTEENTH DID PASS
RECOMMENDATIONS BUT THE FULL
SET OF REFERENCES ARE A LITTLE
BIT MORE EXPANSIVE AND I THINK
IT WARRANTS FULL COMMISSION
REVIEW.
THERE WERE FOR EXAMPLE, SOME
OF OUR SPECIFIC USE REGULATIONS
STILL HAD MINIMUM PARKING
REQUIREMENTS.
WE NEED TO RECONCILE WHERE
WE&apos;RE SAYING THERE&apos;S NO
MINIMUMS ANYWHERE BUT IF YOU DO
A DAYCARE CENTER THERE ARE
MINIMUMS.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK I APOLOGIZE.
I DIDN&apos;T BRING THOSE INITIALLY.
I THINK IT WARRANTS PLANNING
AND REVIEW OF THOSE BEFORE IT
ADVANCES.
&gt;&gt; SO MAYBE OPTIMISTICALLY ARE
ALMOST DONE THERE HOPEFULLY NO.
UH, WELL AND THEN YEAH MAYBE IT
JUST HELPED ME TO MAYBE HEAR
FROM YOU A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
WHAT KIND OF EFFORT YOU THINK
THESE ITEMS WILL REQUIRE ON OUR
PART LIKE THE REZONING THE DC
ONE REZONING OF STADIUM GIVEN
THAT WE&apos;VE GONE THROUGH THAT
PROCESS ONCE, HOW MUCH TIME DO
YOU THINK THAT WOULD TAKE?
I THINK IT WAS ABOUT A NINE
MONTH PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; I THINK FOR THE STATE
EISENHAUER AREA.
SO I&apos;M I&apos;M USING THAT AS SORT
OF OUR OUR BENCHMARK WE&apos;RE
WORKING ON STADIUM NOW.
STADIUM HAS HAD ONE DISCUSSION
THAT THE ORDINANCE OR COMMITTEE
IT WILL BE THAT WILL BE
REPEATED THIS MONTH THAT&apos;S IN
THE STAGE I WOULD SAY
OF REFINING THE MAP.
WE&apos;RE STARTING WITH A PRETTY
WIDE CAST AND THE NEXT STEP
WILL BE WORKING WITH THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
TO SUGGEST HELP US REFINE THE
AREA OR NOT.
WE&apos;RE ALSO DOING THE RESEARCH
OF EXISTING SITE PLANS PUDI
DISTRICTS LIKE WE DID SOME
EARLY SO IF PRESUMING WE&apos;RE
GOING TO FOLLOW THAT SAME
COURSE WHERE WE&apos;RE ASKED STAFF
WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE DOING A LOT
OF THAT RESEARCH AND LEGWORK
AND SORT OF PRESENTING THAT FOR
VALIDATION PROBABLY A SIMILAR
TIME FRAME IF THERE WAS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PICK IT UP I
GUESS WE COULD EXPLORE THE
COMMISSIONERS TAKING ON SOME
OF THAT BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT
THAT&apos;S WHAT IS GOING TO BE
EFFICIENT.
&gt;&gt; SOME OF IT&apos;S JUST INGRAINED
IN OUR SYSTEMS AT CITY HALL SO
DO DO YOU THINK THERE&apos;S ANY WAY
WE CAN GET TO PARKING MAXIMUMS
THIS YEAR?
&gt;&gt; HADO SO ARE YOU SUGGESTING
ADDING THAT ARE YOU SUGGESTING
SORT OF LIKE SWAPPING OUT ONE
OF THE OTHER PRIORITIES LIKE
PREMIUM&apos;S OR SUSTAINABILITY?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M OPEN TO EITHER OBVIOUSLY
ADDING IT I GUESS WOULD BE
PREFERABLE TO GIVING UP
SOMETHING ELSE BUT THAT&apos;S
UNREALISTIC THEN MAYBE I&apos;D BE
WANTING TO HEAR FROM OTHERS AND
CONSIDER SWAPPING IT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
IN SHORT WE CAN LOOK AT IT IF
AT THE END OF THIS DISCUSSION
THERE ARE FIVE THINGS THAT
WE&apos;RE CONSIDERING ADDING TO
TWENTY TWO IT&apos;S LESS LIKELY BUT
THAT&apos;S THE KIND OF FEEDBACK
THAT IT&apos;S HELPFUL IS YEAH IT&apos;S
SOMETHING TO REALLY ELEVATES SO
MAYBE THAT WOULD JUST BE YEAH
MAYBE WE COULD BE THAT SIMPLE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO FLAG AS BEING A
PRIORITY.
THANKS COMMISSIONER LEE I&apos;M
LOOKING AT THE FUTURE KIND
OF LIKE THE LIST OF FUTURE ONES
SINCE WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT DC
ONE I WANTED TO ASK ABOUT
PEDESTRIAN COMPLETE STREETS
IMPLEMENTATION IN WHAT I MEAN
OTHER THAN THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE SIPI WHAT ELSE CAN CAN
WE DO BECAUSE ONE LAND USE I
THINK IS IN TANDEM WITH
TRANSPORTATION.
SELLAR SO HOW CAN WE BETTER I
GUESS THAT&apos;S ONE THAT KIND
OF LIKE YOU COMES TO MY
FOREFRONT OF YOU KNOW,
CONNECTED STREETS COMPLETE
STREETS FOR PEDESTRIAN AND BIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
HOW CAN WE HELP IN THAT RESPECT
AND DOES THAT FALL ON THE
PRIORITY IN THE NEXT TWO TO
THREE YEARS?
SO IF ANYBODY HAS ANY IDEAS
ABOUT HOW WE COULD AS A BODY
EFFECTUATE THAT WOULD BE HERE
HELPFUL?
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK A COUPLE OF WAYS
THAT THAT COULD HAPPEN MAKING
SURE OUR NANCIES ARE CORRECT.
YOU KNOW, LIKE I THINK
SOMEWHERE IN HERE ACTUALLY IS
FOR EXAMPLE ON PRIVATE ROADS.
I DON&apos;T THINK CURRENTLY WE
NECESSARILY REQUIRE SIDEWALKS
ON BOTH SIDES OF THE STREET.
SO MAKING SURE LIKE WHEN
CONSTRUCTION IS HAPPENING THAT
IT IS MEETING REQUIREMENTS.
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THAT
WOULD BE A LOT OF DEVELOPMENT
HAPPENS IN THE CITY THAT AREN&apos;T
STREETS.
THEY ARE BASICALLY PARKING
LOTS.
SO LOOKING AT PARKING
REGULATIONS TO MAKE SURE THAT
WHEN A PARKING LOT IS SORT
OF FUNCTIONING AS A STREET OR
AN ACCESS IS THAT PROVIDING
SORT OF THE COMPLETE STREETS
BENEFITS THAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR
OTHER PIECES COULD BE
CONNECTIVITY.
THIS CAME UP YOU KNOW, I THINK
THERE SOME DISCUSSIONS THIS
CAME UP WITH THE THE BRIGHT ON
PETITION ON BURTON ROAD WHERE
THERE WAS A CONNECT IT WAS
APPROVED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WITH A CONNECTION AT
THE CITY COUNCIL TABLE THAT
ENDED UP BEING MODIFIED WITH
LIKE A GATE ACCESS.
SO WHAT ARE OUR ORDINANCE CODES
NOT ONLY ENCOURAGE BUT MAYBE
REQUIRE CONNECTIVITY THAT CAN
BE REALLY CHALLENGING.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S IT&apos;S I DON&apos;T WANT TO
SAY IT&apos;S EASY BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
MORE POSSIBLE WHEN YOU&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT PUBLIC RIGHTS
OF WAY IT BECOMES REALLY
CHALLENGING WHEN YOU ARE TRYING
TO FIND THE LEVERS TO SAY THAT
THESE NEIGHBORING PRIVATE
PROPERTY OWNERS, MAYBE ONES
UNDER PROPOSAL AND ONE&apos;S NOT
HOW DO YOU AFFECT CROSS
CONNECTION BETWEEN THOSE
PROPERTIES AND SORT
OF CULTIVATE THE ACCESS
EASEMENTS THAT ARE REQUIRED IN
THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THOSE
PROPERTIES?
SO THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER WAY
AND THEN I THINK PROBABLY A
MORE AMBITIOUS WAY WOULD
REQUIRE SOME SORT OF HIGHER
LEVEL CITY CAPITAL PLANNING
WHERE WE DO SOME SORT OF RIGHT
AWAY PLANNING SAYING THAT THIS
IS OUR LONG TERM ASPIRATION FOR
A PARTICULAR RIGHT OF WAY IF
THAT INCLUDES ADDITIONAL RIGHT
OF WAY THAT&apos;S NECESSARY THAT WE
ARE MAKING SURE THAT IS PART
OF OUR DEVELOPMENT REVIEW.
WE&apos;RE INCORPORATING THAT OVER
TIME INTO SORT OF INCREMENTALLY
PROVIDING THAT RIGHT OF WAY SO
THAT WE CAN DO THAT.
THAT IS I WOULD SAY GENERALLY
THAT&apos;S PROBABLY MORE PIE IN THE
SKY WE NEED TO BUILD RIGHT
OF WAY WITH INCREMENTALLY IN
THAT WAY UNLESS THE CITY WAS
GOING TO COME IN AND WITH
BE
PART OF THE EXPLORATION GODS.
THANK.
I THINK IT&apos;S JUST PERTINENT
GIVEN THAT WE&apos;RE IMPLEMENTING
ONE SO TALK ABOUT
TRANSPORTATION AND
CONNECTIVITY.
SO THANK YOU OTHER QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, OBSERVATIONS.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
I HESITATE TO BRING THIS UP
BECAUSE IT&apos;S GOING TO GET US
INTO A CHICKEN AND EGG.
BUT AT A MEETING WITH PUBLIC
SERVICES STAFF THIS PAST WEEK
WE TALKED ABOUT THE THE NEED TO
PROVIDE THE NEED TO ASK NEW
CONSTRUCTION TO PROVIDE SPACE
FOR COMPOSTING IN MULTI UNIT
DWELLINGS.
AND WE ALSO DISCUSSED THE
INABILITY OR AT THE VERY LEAST
AWKWARD NESS OF REQUIRING THAT
WHEN WE DON&apos;T YET PROVIDE THAT
SERVICE AND I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THERE IS AND IN ANY CASE I
DON&apos;T ACTUALLY THINK THAT&apos;S US.
THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE THE
BUILDING CODE IN FACT, I&apos;M NOT
SURE ACTUALLY I THINK MR.
LEONARD THOUGHT ONCE IT WOULD
BE ANYWAY DIRECTING A QUESTION
IN THE MIDDLE OF MY SPEECH.
&gt;&gt; YES.
NO, I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY I&apos;M
NOT SURE THAT IT WOULD
NECESSARILY BE A BUILDING ISSUE
AT WE DO REQUIRE SOLID WASTE,
SOME SOLID WASTE PROVISIONS AND
AS PART OF OUR DESIGN STANDARDS
IT&apos;S CONCEIVABLE THAT THAT
COULD BE THEIR.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS IS THIS IS A TOUGH
ISSUE BECAUSE WE ARE STEAMING
FORWARD WITH THIS ONE AND THOSE
YOU KNOW, WE WILL HAVE AT LEAST
ONE OF THOSE PROPOSALS WITHIN
THE NEXT YEAR.
I&apos;M SURE.
&gt;&gt; AND WE ARE SEEING YOU KNOW,
EVEN THIS THIS ONE PROPOSAL
TONIGHT THAT WE SAW THERE&apos;S
PROBABLY NO PROVISION FOR
COMPOSTING.
I KNOW IT&apos;S ONLY SEVEN TO EIGHT
UNITS BUT THAT&apos;S AN ISSUE AND
IT&apos;S INCREDIBLY COMPLEX BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF YOU KNOW, YOU
NEED THE ROOM AND THE SO I I
JUST THROW THAT OUT THERE
BECAUSE IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, WE CAN&apos;T
GET THE REDUCTION THAT WE NEED
TO GET OF OUR OF OUR
CARBON FOOTPRINT SIMPLY THROUGH
RECYCLING BETTER WE HAVE TO
REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF STUFF THAT
GOES TO LANDFILLS AND FOOD.
FOOD IS THE WORST THING YOU CAN
THROW INTO A LANDFILL.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK IT SHOULD I
I&apos;M PUTTING IT OUT THERE NOT
BECAUSE I THINK WE SHOULD PUT
IT ON OUR WORKPLAN BECAUSE I&apos;M
AFRAID IT&apos;S A MORE ASPIRATIONAL
AND ALSO THIS JUST THE TIMING
MIGHT NOT BE RIGHT BUT MAYBE IT
SHOULD APPEAR SOME WAY OR LIKE
MAYBE 2024 WE&apos;RE GOING TO START
TRYING TO GET AT THIS TO FUTURE
PROOF SOME OF THESE MULTIFAMILY
YOU KNOW, DENSE RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT THAT WE ARE
WELCOMING.
ADDING THAT TO THE FUTURE LIST
I THINK IS NOT BAD FOR THE
FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
THAT&apos;S LIKE WHAT WE DO ON THE
SIPI WHEN WE SAY LIKE THE VERY
LAST YEAR AND THE BUDGET IS WAY
BIGGER THAN WE HAVE MONEY FOR
BUT IT MAKES THE LIST I OTHERS
GO COMMISSIONER WHICH I I THINK
I UNDERSTAND WHY THE TICK ONES
ARE STAGGERED OVER MULTIPLE
YEARS BECAUSE OF THE STAFF
RESOURCES BUT I JUST WANT TO
CONFIRM THAT FOR THE PUBLIC A
NUMBER OF FOLKS HAVE COMMENTED
THAT WE SHOULD DO ALL OF THE
ONES AT A TIME SO THAT WE WOULD
AVOID THE CONTROVERSY OF THE
PREVIOUS ONE THAT WE ARE
PICKING WINNERS AND LOSERS BY
HOW WE ARE TARGETING VARIOUS
TRANS CORRIDORS.
SO IS IT TRUE SO MAYBE THAT&apos;S A
QUESTION TO MR. LEINERT THAT
THE REASON OR LRC THE REASON
WHY THEY ARE SPREAD OUT OVER
YEARS IS BECAUSE OF THE
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF STAFF
TIME THAT IT TAKES TO ASSESS
THE TRANSIT CORRIDOR AND THEN
TO PREPARE THE ZONING FOR IT OR
THE ZONING CHANGE?
YEAH, I WOULD I WOULD SAY THE
SHORT ANSWER IS YES AS A AS AN
EXAMPLE WITH STADIUM STADIUM
INVOLVES MANY MORE PARCELS THAN
WHAT STATE AND EISENHOWER DID
AND SO ALREADY AT THE ORDINANCE
OR COMMITTEE WE TALKED ABOUT
THE CORRESPONDING NEED TO MAKE
SURE WE&apos;RE PROVIDING MORE
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES
.
&gt;&gt; SO AS IT&apos;S NOT TO SAY THAT
THAT&apos;S AN ANSWER NOT TO DO
THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT THERE IS SOME
LEVEL OF YES, YOU CAN SCALE IT
BUT IT IT&apos;S NOT A MATTER
OF DOING BOTH OF THEM IN THE
SAME TIME FRAME BY SCALING THEM
UP.
I THINK YOU ARE I MEAN THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING WE COULD LOOK AT.
IT MIGHT BE THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN DOING, YOU KNOW,
STADIUM AND NINE MONTHS OR
DOING ALL OF THEM IN A YEAR AND
A HALF SO WE COULD LOOK AT WE
COULD LOOK AT THOSE SCENARIOS
FOR SURE
.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE SOME SPECIFIC THINGS
IN TERMS OF EITHER MISSING OR
MORE DETAILED BASED ON OUR
CONVERSATION LAST WEEK AND JUST
MORE REFLECTION ON THIS.
SO UNDER THE OSSI LIKE THE
ELECTRIFICATION AND NET ZERO
BUILDINGS I TOOK AWAY FROM OUR
CONVERSATION LAST WEEK THAT
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF EDUCATIONAL
THINGS THAT THAT WE&apos;RE HOPING
HAPPEN AND WE GAVE SOME
TANGIBLE IDEAS BUT THAT ARE
REALLY OUT OF OUR PURVIEW AND
BUT KNOWING THAT IT IS
HAPPENING, WHAT WOULD FREE US
SOME SPACE?
NOT THAT IT WOULDN&apos;T CONTINUE
TO HAVE SOME AMOUNT
OF EDUCATION AT THE TABLE BUT
BUT I THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL OVERALL.
BUT I ALSO TOOK FROM THAT WHAT
WE COULD DO IN THAT SPACE IS
PROCESS EFFICIENCY.
SO LIKE BY HAVING AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING, BEING ABLE
TO DO A SITE PLAN LATE OR JUMP
TO THE FRONT OF THE WERE THAT
KIND OF THING AND SO LIKE JUST
BE MORE EXPLICIT.
SO THAT&apos;S NOT SO VAGUE.
THE OTHER THING THAT LINKS TO
THAT I THINK THAT CAME UP
BRIEFLY LAST WEEK BUT REALLY
CAME UP TONIGHT IS JUST I THINK
IT&apos;S VERY EASY TO RESURRECT OUR
FRONT YARD SOLAR ORDINANCE.
IT&apos;S IT WAS WRITTEN IT WAS JUST
NOT PASSED.
SO I HOPE THAT WE COULD ADD
SOMETHING TO THAT LIST THAT
WOULD REALLY LIKE AND AND WE
WOULD BE MOVING TOWARDS THAT
AND FACILITATING MORE
OPPORTUNITY FOR SOLAR.
&gt;&gt; SO SO UNDER ELECTRIFICATION
THOSE WOULD BE LIKE WHERE I
WOULD PUT MY VOTE.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO THINK THAT HOUSING
DIVERSITY INCREASING DIVERSITY
OF HOUSING IS IMPORTANT.
I&apos;M HERE TANGIBLY THE THING
THAT I KIND OF HANG MY HAT ON
IS SEE ONE BUT I DON&apos;T THINK
THAT&apos;S THE ONLY THING BUT I&apos;M
NOT SURE WHAT OTHER SPECIFIC
THING WE SHOULD INCLUDE BUT I
JUST I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S
NECESSARILY EXPLICIT IN ANY
OF THIS.
THE OTHER THING THAT&apos;S MISSING
AND THIS IS IN THE MOVIE TO
ZERO THE TRANSPORTATION PLAN AS
PART OF OUR IT&apos;S NOT JUST
VISION ZERO THOUGH BECAUSE IT
WAS A TWO ZERO MOVING TOWARD
VISION ZERO MOVING TOWARDS
VISION.
&gt;&gt; OK, BUT IT&apos;S NOT RIGHT IT&apos;S
SAFETY AND EIGHT TO ZERO WE&apos;VE
GOT MOVING TOWARDS VISION ZERO
AND WE&apos;VE GOT A TWO ZERO TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS BUT BUT THE
MASTER THE THE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN EFFECTIVELY I THINK TOOK
BOTH SAFETY AND A
SUSTAINABILITY PERSPECTIVE TO
MAKE SURE ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THEY SPECIFICALLY CALLED
OUT IN ADDITION TO THE PARKING
MAXIMUMS SO I ALSO VOTE TO MOVE
THAT UP AND THAT WHEN MR. CON
AND YOU GET THROUGH THE NEXT
ROUND OF PARKING TO TAKE THAT
IMMEDIATELY SO I DON&apos;T THINK IT
WOULD BE GET DONE IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO BUT I WOULD HOPE
THAT IT WOULD MOVE FARTHER UP
THE LIST IS A MIXED USE AND THE
WAS IT A 15 MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE AND ALLOWING
FOR MORE 15 MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND I DON&apos;T WE
HAVEN&apos;T REALLY TAKEN ON WHAT
THAT LOOKS LIKE YET I DON&apos;T
KNOW IN TERMS OF LIKE THE
SPECIFICITY OF THAT BUT AND
MAYBE THAT IS SOMETHING FOR A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; BUT I THINK WE THAT&apos;S I
DON&apos;T SEE THAT I THINK WE NEED
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;RE MOVING
TOWARDS THAT SINCE WE HAVE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUGGESTS
THAT THOSE ARE THE SPECIFIC
THINGS.
BUT THEN JUST THE BIGGER
LINKING TO STAFF IS THINKING
THROUGH.
WE&apos;VE BEEN TALKING A LOT ABOUT
WHAT&apos;S IN THE GREEN BUT ALSO
THINKING THROUGH WHAT&apos;S IN THE
BLUE AND BOTH OF THOSE REQUIRE
STAFF TIME AND COMMITMENTS AND
LAUNCHING THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS.
I WOULD IMAGINE TAKES A LOT
OF RESOURCES.
BUT I ALSO DO WANT TO NOT TO IF
TO BRING UP THE FACT THAT THERE
WERE ADDITIONAL THINGS IN BLUE
PREVIOUSLY THAT GOT PULLED
BECAUSE WE JUST DIDN&apos;T HAVE
ENOUGH TIME AND ATTENTION AND
AND YOU MENTIONED THIS IN TERMS
OF WHAT CAME OUT OF YOUR OF THE
WHAT IS IT THE TALK LAST WEEK
THAT YOU WERE GIVING.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH.
SO ORIGINALLY THIS PART OF THE
PROPOSED WORK PLAN WASN&apos;T
ADOPTED BUT I WAS PROPOSING A
COMMITTEE TO LOOK AT THE
HISTORY OF RACE ECONOMIC EQUITY
BUT MOSTLY RACIAL EQUITY AND
OUR RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
AND WITH ALL THIS DISCUSSION
OF OTHER ITEMS AND THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD CONDUCTING AN EDUCATIONAL
SERIES, I CONTINUED I CONTINUE
TO BE INTERESTED IN IT.
I STARTING TO PIECE RESEARCH
TOGETHER BUT I
THINK IN THE
CONTEXT OF OTHER THINGS THAT
I&apos;M NOT PROPOSING THAT THAT
COMMITTEE BE FORMED.
I&apos;M NOT PROPOSING THAT WE SPEND
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF TIME
AND RESOURCES GOING BACK.
I WOULD LIKE US TO BE MINDFUL
OF THOSE THINGS AS WE EMBARK ON
OUR PLAN TO MAKE SURE OUR PLAN
IS MORE BETTER AND FOUNDED IN
EQUITY AND SUSTAINABILITY,
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING, MIXED
INCOME.
I THINK I THINK THAT&apos;S A HARD
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S HARD FOR ME THAT WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS REALLY
INTERESTED IN AND THE CONTEXT
OF THAT OTHER CONVERSATION AND
I WANT TO BE CLEAR PART OF IT
THE RESEARCH I&apos;VE DONE SO FAR I
THINK THAT I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T WANT
TO PROFESS THAT IT&apos;S
COMPREHENSIVE OR I CAN CONCLUDE
IT BUT I HAVE NOT YET FOUND THE
PUBLIC POLICY JUST DISCUSSIONS
THAT WERE VERY EXPLICITLY
EXCLUSIONARY WITH A RACIAL
INTENT.
THERE WERE CONSCIOUS POLICY
CONVERSATIONS THAT HAPPEN IN
THE CITY THAT I THINK
CONTRIBUTED TO REDISTRIBUTION
OF PARTICULARLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOODS, PARTICULARLY THE
KOREATOWN NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT I&apos;VE YET TO FIND THE ZONING
POLICIES THAT GET TO THAT
AGAIN.
I DON&apos;T ABSOLVE THE CITY
OF THAT.
THERE IS A LOT OF CONVERSATION.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF TENSION.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THE CITY
EXPERIENCED ANYTHING ANY MORE
UNIQUE MANNER THAN THE COUNTRY
DID.
AND I I THINK OUR RESOURCES AND
HOW TO DO IT BETTER GOING
FORWARD MIGHT BE BEST PLACED
WELL AND WE STARTED TO MEET
LIKE IT WAS LIKE EVEN IF IT
WASN&apos;T ADOPTED WE HAD MEETING
AND I COMING UP WITH THE REMIT
OF WHAT THAT WAS AND EVEN WHAT
THE TYPE WHAT THE NAME OF IT
WAS IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
THINK WHAT WHAT THAT EFFORT
SHOWED TO ME WAS LIKE HAVING
THINGS WITH SPECIFIC LIMITS AND
MAKING SURE THAT WE STAFF
DEDICATED TO SPECIFIC THINGS
AND NOT OVERSTRETCHING MAKE
SURE THAT WE GET EVERYTHING
DONE.
SO I WANT TO I ALSO JUST I PUT
THIS IN THE CONTEXT OF LIKE
THERE&apos;S YOU HAVE LIMITED STAFF
AND WHEN WE ARE THINKING ABOUT
WHAT&apos;S ON THE PRIORITY LIST, WE
NEED TO BE THINKING NOT JUST
ABOUT THE GREEN BUT LIKE NOT
JUST ABOUT THE GREEN BUT ALSO
ABOUT THE BLUE ON HERE IN TERMS
OF WHERE WE DIRECT WHERE WE
HELP SHAPE WHERE WE SPEND OUR
TIME BUT ALSO WHERE STAFF SPEND
THEIR TIME SO IF KNOWING ALSO
THAT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
SOMETHING THAT I THINK WE ALL
AGREE NEEDS TO HAVE A LOT
OF TIME AND THINKING WHAT
SHOULD OUGHT TO GO IN THAT
EFFORT AND WHERE WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO GIVE ON EITHER THE TOP
HALF OR THE BOTTOM HALF AND I
DON&apos;T KNOW I JUST WANT TO BRING
THAT UP THAT YEAH THAT I THINK
THERE&apos;S LIMITED GO AHEAD
COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; WHICH I WOULD BE REMISS NOT
TO JUST COMMENT ON MR. LEINERT
ASSESSMENT OF THE RESEARCH.
I WOULD NOT AS A DIRECT
REBUTTAL BECAUSE I HAVEN&apos;T SEEN
YOUR RESEARCH BUT JUST AS THE
GENERAL CLIMATE IN WHICH
HOUSING OCCURRED IN THE UNITED
STATES, IT WAS DONE IN A WAY TO
BE RACE NEUTRAL WHILE AT THE
SAME TIME ENFORCING RACIAL
SEGREGATION.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT FOR
US TO STEP BACK LIKE PLANNING
COMMISSIONS WERE CREATED TO
KEEP PEOPLE OF COLOR FROM BEING
IN COMMUNITIES IS JUST AT THE
ORIGINS WHEN YOU READ THE
ORIGIN DOCUMENTS THEY THEY SAY
THE QUIET PART OUT LOUD SO THAT
IT BECOMES A RACE NEUTRAL WAY
OF BEING ABLE TO INFORM A RACE
CASTE SYSTEM SO THAT 20, 50, 70
YEARS LATER WE CAN ACTUALLY SIT
AT A TABLE AND SAY WELL WE
DIDN&apos;T DO ANYTHING EXPLICITLY
RACIST.
WELL WE DIDN&apos;T DO ANYTHING
EXPLICITLY RACIST BECAUSE THE
WHOLE THING WAS RACIST FROM ITS
ORIGIN.
SO IT IS QUITE IT IS QUITE
OVERWHELMING BOTH AS A RESIDENT
AND AS A PLANNING COMMISSIONER
TO HAVE TO JUST HAVE TO SAY
THIS IT&apos;S JUST TAXING AND IT WE
CAN LOOK AT THE OUTCOMES TO SEE
THAT THE DESIGN DID WHAT IT WAS
INTENDED TO DO.
WE DO NOT LIVE IN A MULTIRACIAL
CITY.
WE JUST DON&apos;T AND IT WAS
DESIGNED THAT WAY AND SO IT IS
IT IS JUST IT&apos;S OVERWHELMING TO
HAVE TO CONTINUALLY REMIND US
NOT AND I DON&apos;T MEAN THIS IN A
CONDESCENDING WAY BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, I&apos;M STILL GETTING TO KNOW
ALL OF YOU ALL IT&apos;S JUST I&apos;M
EXHAUSTED.
YOU KNOW, I HAVE TO FIGHT FOR
MY HUMAN DIGNITY AT EVERY STAGE
OF MY LIFE AND IT IS IT&apos;S JUST
EXHAUSTING AND I WANT US TO TO
DESIGN A CITY THAT WELCOMES
EVERYBODY WHO WANTS TO LIVE
HERE, THAT REMOVES THE BARRIERS
.
AND NOW WE&apos;RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
RACE.
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT ECONOMICS.
BUT THAT IS JUST ANOTHER PROXY
FOR RACE BECAUSE OF THE
SYSTEMIC WAYS THAT PEOPLE ARE
EXCLUDED LIKE IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD I CAN COUNT ON ONE
HAND THE BLACK PEOPLE WHO LIVE
IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD AND ON THE
OTHER HAND THE OTHER PEOPLE
OF COLOR WHO LIVE IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND OUR OUR
HOUSING PRICES ARE GOING UP.
I AM THE BENEFICIARY OF IT.
MY HOUSE HAS DOUBLED IN TEN
YEARS AND IT&apos;S GOING TO
CONTINUE TO GROW WHICH MEANS I
CAN&apos;T I COULDN&apos;T BUY MY HOUSE
TODAY WITH MY JOB.
IT&apos;S JUST IT&apos;S NOT POSSIBLE AND
SO WE CAN SAY HEY, THERE&apos;S
NOTHING THAT SAYS THIS WAS
EXPLICIT BUT WE CAN SEE THAT
IT&apos;S NOT POSSIBLE WHICH IS WHY
I&apos;VE BEEN ADVOCATING AS I&apos;VE
SAID, THE TABLE FOR THE MISSING
MIDDLE BECAUSE IT&apos;S A WAY FOR
US TO PRESERVE THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER WHILE BRINGING MORE
DENSITY INTO OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
SO THAT WE CAN WELCOME MORE
NEIGHBORS.
I HAVE SUPPORTED EVERY HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT THAT WE HAVE
INITIATED THAT&apos;S BEFORE THIS
TABLE BECAUSE I WANT MORE
NEIGHBORS.
IT&apos;S A BETTER COMMUNITY FOR ME
AND FOR MY FAMILY FOR US TO
HAVE MORE NEIGHBORS.
SO I WOULD JUST BE REMISS NOT
TO TO SAY THAT AGAIN AT THE
TABLE.
&gt;&gt; SO THANKS FOR THE TIME.
OTHER QUESTION OBSERVATIONS
FOOD FOR THOUGHT FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION OR MR.
LEINERT BEFORE WE SEE THE NEXT
VERSION THE NEXT DRAFT OF THIS,
DO YOU FEEL LIKE YOU GOT SOME
MORE FEEDBACK?
&gt;&gt; AND ACTUALLY I ASKED THAT
QUESTION AND I LOOKED ON THIS
SIDE AND I DID NOT SEE ANY
HINTS BUT I DID NOT TURN MY
HEAD BACK AND NOW COMMISSIONER
SILVER SNUCK HER HAND IN ON
THIS SIDE I THINK TO
COMMISERATES POINT IN OUR
DISCUSSION ON MAY 4TH ABOUT
PREPARING FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
DISCUSSION AND IF WE&apos;RE
STARTING TO THINK ABOUT OUR
WORK PROGRAM BY CREATING SOME
OF THOSE COLUMNS AS WELL, I
THINK IS REALLY HELPFUL TO
AGAIN THINK OF THESE THINGS IN
TANDEM AS MUCH INFORMATION
SHARING ABOUT THESE RESOURCES.
&gt;&gt; I THINK I APPRECIATE THE
COMMENTS AND I THINK ONE
OF THEM IS A BIGGER SOME ARE
BIGGER DISCUSSIONS THAN THE
POLICY WE CAN KIND OF RAPIDLY
CHANGE.
I THINK THE SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSING IS A BIG CONVERSATION
THAT&apos;S GOING TO COME OFF
OF THAT COMMITTEE AND HOW WE
MIGHT ADDRESS IT.
BUT IT MAY NOT BE A DIRECT
ZONING CONDITION BUT IT IS HOW
WE FINANCED OR GAVE FINANCING
TO THOSE TYPES OF ZONING
STRUCTURES AND SO WE SHOULD BE
ADDRESSING IT AND I THINK THERE
IS GREAT OVERLAP FOR A VERY
NEAR NEXT DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW
WE KICK OFF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
SO MAYBE THIS IS LIKE A TANDEM
COMMENT TO FIGURE OUT WAYS TO
MAYBE MOVE IN, MAKE SURE THOSE
AGENDAS ITEMS SHOW UP IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
DISCUSSION AS WE KICK THEM OFF
.
THAT&apos;S ALL.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER PAUL,
ON BOTH OF THOSE PREVIOUS
COMMENTS, COMMISSIONER AND
COMMISSIONER SURVEYS, I THINK
WE WANT TO REALLY ALSO KEEP OUR
EYES LOT SIZES BECAUSE THAT&apos;S
BEEN A HUGE WAY THAT THAT THAT
WE&apos;VE GOTTEN THE KIND OF GROWTH
THAT WE&apos;VE GOTTEN AND AND THERE
HAS ALWAYS BEEN AN CLEAVING
OF CERTAINLY THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN POPULATION IN
ANN ARBOR.
TERRYTOWN WAS AN ENCLAVE THAT
WAS CREATED BY ECONOMICS AND
MONDESIRE LAND USES AND THEN WE
CREATED COOPERATIVE HOUSING
WHICH IS NOT A BAD THING TO
HAVE.
BUT IF THAT IS ON CLOTHING FOR
FOR MOSTLY AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND
NOW MORE DIVERSE, THAT IS A
PARTICULAR WAY OF IT&apos;S NOT
TOTAL DISPLACEMENT BUT IT&apos;S
CERTAINLY NOT EQUITY.
AND SO I THINK THAT THERE ARE
ASPECTS OF OUR HISTORY THAT WE
HAVE ARE GETTING SOME KIND
OF HANDLE ON.
&gt;&gt; AND OF COURSE THERE&apos;S THE
GENERAL PROBLEM OF SINGLE
FAMILY ZONING.
ABSOLUTELY.
THAT&apos;S A GENERAL PROBLEM.
I DON&apos;T THINK THERE&apos;S ANYTHING
PARTICULARLY INTERESTING OR
UNIQUE IN ANN ARBOR ABOUT THAT
ONE.
BUT SO WE&apos;RE I THINK THAT WE
HAVE LEARNED SOME THINGS ABOUT
THE HISTORY THAT WE CAN CARRY
INTO THE MASTER PLANNING
PROCESS.
UM, I&apos;M INTERESTED TO CONTINUE
PURSUING THAT RESEARCH BUT I
AGREE THAT THIS IS NOT I DON&apos;T
THINK THAT THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT IS SET UP WITH THE
EXPERTS TO TAKE ON WRITING A
BOOK ABOUT, YOU KNOW, AS IF
THAT IS A PROBLEM RIGHT.
WE AND SO I THINK THIS IS GOING
TO BE THE IT IS AN AMBITIOUS
THING TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND.
&gt;&gt; AND SO, UH, SO I WANT THIS
TO CONTINUE BUT I DON&apos;T
NECESSARILY THINK THAT WE CAN
DO THE RESEARCH AS MUCH AS WE
CAN LEARN FROM THE RESEARCH.
AND SO WHAT WE HAVE TO DO IS
TAKE THE STUFF THAT WE HAVE AND
TRY TO FIND WAYS FOR PEOPLE TO
CARRY IT ON FOR US IN THE WAY
THAT MAKES STEINBERG AND ROB
GOODSPEED DID THE RACIAL
COVENANTS PROJECT WHICH MADE
SUCH A SPLASH SO GO HIGH
COMMISSIONER EVANS.
UM, YEAH.
I MEAN I JUST I THINK WHAT I
WAS JUST SAYING IS REALLY
IMPORTANT AND I WANTED TO JUST
KIND OF LIFT THAT UP AND ALSO
MAYBE ENCOURAGE NOT TO FEEL
THAT BECAUSE IT&apos;S OVERWHELMING
OR BECAUSE WE ARE NOT MAYBE
DON&apos;T THE EXPERTIZE THAT
THEREFORE WE SHOULDN&apos;T TRY TO
ADDRESS IT.
I THINK WE SHOULD BASICALLY BE
TALKING ABOUT ISSUES OF RACIAL
EQUITY AFFORDABILITY AND
INCLUSIVELY LIKE EVERY SINGLE
EVENING AND I THINK WE DO TRY
TO DO THAT.
BUT I THINK MAYBE WE NEED TO BE
ADDRESSING IT MORE SQUARELY AND
SO MAYBE IT&apos;S EVEN KIND
OF MAYBE IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
ALWAYS BE REMINDING OURSELVES
HOW WE UNDERSTAND THE
CONNECTION BETWEEN SOMETHING
LIKE LOOKING AT LOT SIZE AND
THE HISTORY OF RACIAL EXCLUSION
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND DRAWING
THOSE LINES BECAUSE I THINK
THOSE LINES ARE THERE TO BE
DRAWN OR NOT ABSTRACT ACTUALLY.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN WE CAN JUST THINK
ABOUT THE WAY IN WHICH PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN EXCLUDED FROM
SOMETHING LIKE HOMEOWNERSHIP
AND THEREFORE GENERATIONAL
WEALTH AND THEREFORE THEREFORE
SO I THINK YEAH I GUESS I JUST
WANTED TO I DON&apos;T KNOW LIKE
ACKNOWLEDGE ACKNOWLEDGE THE
COMMENTS FROM COMMISSIONER
WISCH AND SUPPORT THEM AND AND
THEN I WANT TO PIVOT TO A MUCH
MORE MUNDANE THING WHICH IS CAN
YOU PLEASE REMIND ME WHAT WHAT
ABOUT OUR FORCES OWNING WAS ON
THE TABLE FOR CONSIDERATION.
YOU JUST COVERED IT.
IS IT LOT SIZES?
OK, SO I THOUGHT I THINK ONE
OF THE WAYS THAT THE CITY HAS
EXCLUDED THE DEVELOPMENT
OF HOUSING AND PARTICULARLY
LOWER COST PRICE POINT HOUSING
IS FROM 1963 TO TODAY WE HAVE
INCREASED THE MINIMUM SIZES FOR
OUR FORESE WE&apos;VE INCREASED THE
MINIMUM SQUARE FOOTAGE PER
DWELLING UNIT AND THAT HAS
RESULTED IN LEST LESS DENSE
DEVELOPMENT ON LOTS AND IT HAS
ALSO RESULTED IN PROBABLY
LARGER UNITS PER LOT.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THE THE DISCOURSE
OF THAT AT THE TIME WAS WAS
FOCUSED ON STUDENT ENCROACHMENT
INTO RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
BUT IT HAS HAD AN IMPACT ON
EQUITY BY SEVERE IMPACT OF THE
HOUSING SUPPLY GENERALLY ACROSS
THE CITY SO SO THAT THAT IS AN
ISSUE THAT AS A COMMUNITY I
THINK WE HAVE STRUGGLED WITH
MADE SOME POOR DECISIONS WITH
AND AND IT&apos;S BEEN REVISITED
UNSUCCESSFULLY IN RECENT
HISTORY AND AND THAT CONDITION
IS UNIQUE TO OUR FORESE.
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS A SPECIFIC MISSION
ESTABLISHED PREVIOUSLY FOR OUR
FORESE.
&gt;&gt; IT MET FOR MANY YEARS PUT
TOGETHER A SERIES
OF RECOMMENDATIONS THAT DID NOT
RESULT AND CONSENSUS TO BE
ADOPTED.
&gt;&gt; OH OK.
SO WHEN THE TIME COMES IT&apos;LL BE
HELPFUL FOR THOSE OF US WHO
WEREN&apos;T AROUND THEN TO REVISIT
THAT AND ALSO FRONT YARD SOULA
FOR THOSE OF US WHO AREN&apos;T HERE
AT THE TIME.
THAT SOUNDS EXCITING THOUGH.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
SO I JUST LIKE WE HAD A RECENT
DISCUSSION SIMILAR OF THE C ONE
R DISTRICT WHICH WAS
CREATED AROUND STUDENT HOUSING
AND DENSITY IN MIXED USE
WALKABLE FIFTEEN MINUTES WAS A
LOT OF THE PURPOSE BUT WITH THE
CLOUT OF STUDENT PROXIMITY
WHICH IS THE SAME IS THAT OUR
FORESE BUT THE REPERCUSSIONS
OF THE RATES RISING AND
LOCATION OF THIS BEING
RESTRICTIVE TO IT.
SO I WOULD ACTUALLY KIND
OF MENTION THAT TO BUNDLE THE C
ONE THEY ARE IN OUR FORESE AS
HAVING SIMILAR KIND
OF NARRATIVES AND
CHARACTERISTICS WITH THEM ALONG
THAT SAME KIND OF WHAT IS THE
DENSITY AND APPROPRIATE AT
CERTAIN EDGES OF DOWNTOWN HAVE
BEEN THE SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE THAT&apos;S
REALLY THE EDGES THAT WE&apos;RE
STARTING TO SEE THERE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I JUST KIND OF BRING
IT UP IS ANOTHER KIND
OF DIFFICULT ZONING FACTOR THAT
WE&apos;VE BEEN SEEING RECENTLY AND
THE DIALOG IS KIND
OF CIRCUMVENTING SOME OF THE
RATIONALE MAYBE AROUND WHERE IT
CAME FROM AND YOU KNOW,
OPPORTUNITY AND KIND
OF RESTRICTIONS TO IT JUST TO
ADD ON FOR WHAT IT&apos;S WORTH THE
OUR FORCES STUFF WAS EVEN
BEFORE MY TIME THAT WAS LIKE
LIKE A COUPLE OF YEARS AND
THERE WAS A DISCUSSION LIKE IF
WE SHOULD TAKE IT BACK UP A LOT
OF IT MY UNDERSTANDING IS AND I
HAVE NOTES SOMEWHERE BURIED IN
LIKE MY EMAIL BOX BECAUSE I
FEEL LIKE SOMEDAY WE&apos;RE GOING
TO COME BACK TO IT WAS AROUND
PARKING AND SO THE ELIMINATION
ACTUALLY OF PARKING MINIMUMS
AND ESTABLISHMENT PARKING
MAXIMUM MAY HELP POTENTIALLY
WHO KNOWS OTHER OTHER QUESTIONS
COMMENTS WE&apos;RE GOING TO SEE
THIS AT LEAST TWO MORE TIMES.
&gt;&gt; GREAT.
DO YOU HAVE WHAT YOU NEED?
&gt;&gt; I AM.
SO THE NEXT TIME YOU SEE THIS
WILL BE HOPEFULLY A SUCCESSFUL
INTEGRATION OF THE COMMENTS AND
FEEDBACK I&apos;VE HEARD TONIGHT
THAT WILL BE PRESENTED AS A
RESOURCE TO YOU.
THE MEETING THE EVENING OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ALL
THINGS GOING WELL YOU WILL MAKE
ANY ADDITIONAL REFINEMENTS
SUGGESTIONS EITHER ADDING
THINGS TO EITHER CATEGORY,
PRIORITIZING THE LIKE AND I&apos;LL
PRESENT IT AND AT THE
SEVENTEENTH MEETING FOR
ADOPTION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE ON TO ITEM TEN PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS THE FINAL OPPORTUNITY
TO FOUR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP
TO THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY
ISSUE WILL AGAIN FIRST CALL ON
FOLKS THAT ARE HERE AND THEN
MOVE TO REMOTE PARTICIPANTS.
YOU CAN PRESS THE RESET HAND
BUTTON ON YOUR RESUME SCREEN
PUSH STANADYNE OR DIAL IN EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FOUR FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN.
OUR MEETING IS NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR TWELVE
TWENTY SIX.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO KICK US OFF
KICK KICK KICK IT OFF AND ALSO
FINISH IT OFF.
I HIGHLY DOUBT ANYONE IS
WATCHING AT THIS POINT.
I COMMEND YOU ON YOUR STAMINA
AS ALWAYS AND FEEL FREE.
IT&apos;S VERY LATE.
FEEL FREE TO TUNE ME OUT.
I WON&apos;T TAKE OFFENSE.
I&apos;M GOING TO I JUST HAVE A
QUICK COMMENT ON THE SIU
PRESENTATION BY JACQUI SMITH.
YEAH, THIS IS A REALLY
ATTRACTIVE CREATIVE APPROACH
AND TO DECARBONIZE STARTED TO
DECARBONIZE THE CITY.
&gt;&gt; WE SHOULD DEFINITELY MOVE
FORWARD WITH IT AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE BUT MR. WILESMITH
FRAMED IT AT THE START OF HIS
PRESENTATION AS A MORE
ATTRACTIVE ALTERNATIVE TO THE
CONDEMNATION ROUTE
OF ESTABLISHING A MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY, YOU KNOW, TO
THE EFFECT THAT BUYING POLES
AND WIRES IS GOING TO BE VERY
EXPENSIVE DTD INFRASTRUCTURE
AND IT&apos;S GOING TO BE DEFECTIVE
ANYWAY.
SO LET&apos;S AVOID THAT AND WORK ON
THIS MORE DECENTRALIZED
DISTRIBUTED ENERGY KIND
OF APPROACH.
AND YEAH, I DON&apos;T REALLY QUITE
AGREE WITH THE FRAMING.
WE SHOULD DEFINITELY TAKE
DISTRIBUTED ENERGY AS FAR AS WE
CAN BUT THAT HAS LIMITATIONS.
PAUL FAN WHO THE BOSTON
CONSULTANT WHO HELPED CONCEIVE
AND IVOR&apos;S RCU IDEA TOLD ENERGY
COMMISSION THAT MAYBE 20
PERCENT OF BUILDINGS ARE
OPTIMALLY SUITED FOR MICROGRID
.
THEY&apos;RE LIMITED BY THINGS LIKE
BUILDING ENERGY USE INTENSITY
AND ECONOMIC FACTORS.
SO THE FEW CAN ONLY TAKE THE
GOAL THE ZERO GOAL OF POWERING
OUR GROWTH WITH 100 PERCENT
RENEWABLE ENERGY SO FAR THE
REST OF IT WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE
TO GET OFF THE REGIONAL GRID
AND THE ZERO PLAN AND WE&apos;RE
JUST DOING THAT THROUGH
COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION
WHICH IS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
ON BEHALF OF CITY RESIDENTS BY
THE CITY.
BUT OUTSIDE PROVIDERS OF CLEAN
POWER THAT WOULD BE GREAT IF WE
CAN MAKE IT HAPPEN.
IT&apos;S CURRENTLY NOT LEGAL AND IT
MAY NOT BE LEGAL FOR A LONG
TIME IN PART BECAUSE DTT AND
CONSUMERS ARE LOBBYING SO
HEAVILY HEAVILY AGAINST IT.
&gt;&gt; BUT THERE IS YOU WOULDN&apos;T
MAY NOT KNOW BUT THERE IS A
VERY, VERY STRONG GRASSROOTS
MOVEMENT TOWARDS ESTABLISHING A
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY THAT
WOULD TAKE OVER THE
INFRASTRUCTURE FROM DC HERE IN
ANN ARBOR YOUR ORGANIZATION IS
CALLED ANN ARBOR FOR PUBLIC
POWER MOSTLY IT&apos;S A BUNCH
OF IDEALISTIC KIDS WITH A FEW
OLDER PEOPLE.
I&apos;M INVOLVED AND IT&apos;S NOT A
FOOL&apos;S ERRAND NECESSARILY.
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME RECENT
EXAMPLES WHERE THIS HAS WORKED
WINTER PARK, FLORIDA, JEFFERSON
COUNTY, WASHINGTON.
BOULDER WAS A FAILURE IN THEIR
EFFORT TO ME IN THIS PLACE BUT
EVEN THEY GOT THEIR UTILITY TO
AGREE TO GO TO 80 RENEWABLES BY
2030 IF THEY DROPPED THEIR MUNI
PLAN AND IF THE UTILITY
DOESN&apos;T, THEY CAN RESUME
UNIVERSITE MUNICIPAL
LEGISLATION.
SO ANYWAY THAT&apos;S OUT THERE
MAYBE WORTH LOOKING AT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE WHO&apos;S
LISTENING WHO WANTS TO PROVIDE
PUBLIC COMMENT, MR. LEONARD?
&gt;&gt; WE DO.
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ, YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
HI.
I JUST I JUST WANTED TO POKE A
LITTLE FUN AT THE PREVIOUS
SPEAKER, YOU KNOW, NOT LIKE
OTHER PEOPLE ARE PAYING
ATTENTION AND WATCHING THESE
THINGS SO BUT ANYWAY, I THINK
THE AC STUFF IS REALLY COOL.
GREAT PRESENTATION.
I I THINK MUNICIPAL MUNICIPAL
ASSOCIATION IS SOMETHING
THAT&apos;S, YOU KNOW, WORTH
PURSUING AS WELL ALONGSIDE THAT
IN PARALLEL AND I THINK THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING WE SHOULD BE
LOOKING AT BUT I DON&apos;T THINK IT
SHOULD SLOW DOWN ANYTHING WITH
THE SIU AND I AM EXCITED TO
MOVE TO JUMP IN TO SEE YOUR
STUFF ONCE THERE&apos;S SOMETHING
AVAILABLE TO SIGN UP FOR.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S PRETTY
COOL AS FAR AS THE WORK PLAN
AND ZONING, I DO THINK WE
REALLY NEED TO BE COGNIZANT
OF THE FACT THAT ANY DISCUSSION
OF ZONING IN ANN ARBOR REALLY
IN AMERICA AS A WHOLE HAS TO
HAS TO INCLUDE THAT DISCUSSION
OF THE RACIAL EQUITY AND THAT
JUST PERVADES ZONING IN
GENERAL.
&gt;&gt; SO WE NEED TO BE CONTINUING
THAT DISCUSSION SO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANY OTHERS, MR. LEONARD?
NOPE.
ALL RIGHT.
THEN WE&apos;RE ON TO ITEM ELEVEN
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
ANY ALL RIGHT.
OH OH I LOOKED THIS WAY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
YEAH.
SORRY I&apos;M COMING BACK.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL MAKE IT REALLY BRIEF.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK
COMMISSIONER WISCH FOR SHARING
THOSE COMMENTS.
WE&apos;RE ALWAYS GOING TO HAVE TO
ENGAGE WITH THE BALANCE
OF SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABILITY, ECONOMIC
FEASIBILITY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE
IN THAT LAST COMPONENT IS
ALWAYS GOING TO BE SOMETHING
THAT DEEPLY WE NEED TO GRAPPLE
WITH.
NO DOUBT IN MY MIND THAT
THERE&apos;S SYSTEMIC RACISM THAT&apos;S
RESULTED IN GEOSPATIAL
CONCENTRATION AND WE HAVE TO DO
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO BE
ACTIVELY ANTI-RACIST.
SO THANK YOU FOR SHARING.
THAT&apos;S VERY BRAVE OF YOU TO
SHARE THOSE COMMENTS WITH US SO
THAT&apos;S ALL.
THANK YOU.
THANKS.
ANYONE ELSE.
ALL RIGHT.
ITEM TWELVE IS ADJOURNMENT ALL
IN FAVOR?
&gt;&gt; MOVE BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CLARKE.
&gt;&gt; NOW EVERYBODY CAN RAISE YOUR
HAND IF YOU WANT TO GO AND THAT
IS ALL OF THE HANS